UPDATE 10:22 P.M.: Maui County confirms 36 fatalities in Lahaina wildfire. The total includes six that were announced earlier today. The county said no other details were available.

UPDATE 4 P.M.:

More than 271 structures have been impacted by the Lahaina fire, the U.S. Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department reported after flyovers of Lahaina town on Wednesday.

Widespread damage to the town, the harbor and surrounding areas are being documented, the county said.

Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen earlier confirmed that six people have died due to the Lahaina fires.

A federal team arrived on Maui Wednesday and is on the ground in Lahaina to assist with search and rescue efforts.

As of Wednesday afternoon, MFD reported no significant changes for the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pulehu fires. Containment numbers were not available. No new evacuations had been ordered.

MFD has requested 20 additional firefighters from Honolulu and an incident management team. Close to 100 Maui firefighters have been on duty around the clock, including 11 from state airport firefighting and rescue personnel. Four helicopters have been deployed for water drops in Lahaina.

Lahaina remains closed to drivers during the active fire, but people already in Lahaina are being allowed to exit via Kahakuloa. Maui police are stationed at Maalaea and Waihee to prevent entry to Lahaina until the area is secure. Only Kahakuloa residents may access Kahakuloa via Waihee.

UPDATE 11 A.M.:

Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen confirmed six people have died so far due to the Maui fires that have burned a vast portion of Lahaina town as well as multiple homes and structures Upcountry.

“This is devastating to our community,” Bissen said during a remote appearance at a Honolulu news conference with county and state officials on Wednesday morning. “This is a time for us to come together. This is a time for us to care for each other.”

He said there have been 13 total evacuations, 16 road closures and five shelters opened as a result of the fire.

Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, who is serving as acting governor with Gov. Josh Green out of state, told travelers during the news conference that “this is not a safe place to be.”

“We have shelters that are overrun. We have resources that are being taxed,” Luke said. “We are doing whatever we can.”

She said Green is flying home early from traveling on the Mainland in response to fires on Maui and Hawaii island.

UPDATE 9:30 A.M.:

Firefighting crews are continuing to battle fires in Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry, with no change in containment since Tuesday, the county said Wednesday morning at 9:30 a.m.

Four helicopters launched this morning to assist in the firefighting efforts after weather conditions improved. Strong winds, including gusts of up to 80 mph, had made conditions unsafe for helicopter operations.

More than 2,100 people were housed overnight in four emergency shelters at Maui Preparatory Academy in Napili, Maui High School in Kahului, War Memorial Center and Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani. Evacuees at Maui Prep were notified to leave to go to Kaanapali hotels to gather their belongings and evacuate Lahaina through Kahakuloa.

Another 2,000 travelers from canceled and arriving flights Tuesday were sheltered overnight at Kahului Airport, with plans underway for transporting them off island.

Kihei residents who were evacuated Tuesday night due to a fire in Pulehu were cleared to return to their homes shortly after 6 a.m. Wednesday.

UPDATE 4 A.M.:

All roads in Lahaina town have been closed and no traffic is being allowed into West Maui except for emergency personnel, according to a county alert shortly before 4 a.m. Wednesday.

Road closures include all roads between Wahikuli Wayside Park on the north to Kai Hele Ku Street to the south.

Honoapiilani Highway is closed at Maalaea to Lahaina-bound traffic, while Kahekili Highway is closed at Waihee to Lahaina-bound traffic.

More evacuations were ordered throughout the night, including for residents of Kaanapali Golf Estates area, including Kaulapa Loop, Puu Anoano Street, Hakui Loop and Wekio Place.

UPDATE 1 A.M.:

The Maui Fire Department is advising immediate proactive evacuation of residents of Holopuni and Pulehu roads in Kula, subdivisions north and south of Lipoa Parkway down to Maui Meadows and Ohukai subdivision in Kihei, the county said shortly before 1 a.m.

Some shelters have also been shifted to move residents to safer areas. The Lahaina Civic Center evacuation site has been moved to Maui Preparatory Academy in Napili-Honokowai to place evacuees away from impacted Lahaina town. Residents at the Kihei Community Center evacuation site have been relocated to Maui High School as a precautionary measure.

Shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items, the county said. Pet owners using the shelters need to properly restrain pets.

UPDATE 12 A.M.:

Maui County issued more evacuation orders for residents in Upcountry and South Maui as it continued to battle fires across the island in the early morning hours of Wednesday.

Residents of Upper Kimo Road have been ordered to evacuate immediately, the Maui Emergency Management Agency announced on social media shortly after midnight. A shelter is open at the Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center.

Residents mauka of Piilani Highway up to and including Maui Meadows have also been ordered to evacuate immediately. The nearest open shelter is at the Kihei Community Center.

Maui County also announced shortly after midnight that 911 service is currently unavailable in West Maui.

UPDATE 5 P.M.:

A flareup of a fire in Lahaina that was contained earlier this morning has forced multiple evacuations and road closures, according to Maui County.

Evacuations are occurring in the vicinity of Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu and Lahaina Bypass, the county said shortly before 5 p.m. People on the west side are advised to shelter in place unless evacuations are ordered.

Multiple roads, including Honoapiilani Highway from Hokiokio Place to Lahaina Bypass, are closed due to downed power lines.

Kahakuloa is closed to outside traffic. Only village residents are being allowed to travel through the remote side of Kahekili Highway.

Maui County said a brush fire of about 3 acres fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora was reported at 6:37 a.m. today in the area of Lahainaluna Road. After area evacuations, the fire was declared 100 percent contained before 9 a.m. However, an afternoon flareup forced the closure of the bypass.

The American Red Cross opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center and will keep it open until further notice.

Meanwhile, in Kula, the Maui Fire Department is calling for the immediate evacuation of residents of the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle as well as the immediate proactive evacuation of residents of Piiholo and Olinda roads as a roughly 1,000-acre fire spreads Upcountry.

The fire was reported at 12:22 a.m. today near Olinda Road and led to early-morning evacuations of residents in the Kula 200 and Hanamu Road areas. Crews are actively battling the fire, which has reached as far as Kualono Place near the Kula Lodge.

Trees and downed power lines on Olinda and Piiholo roads have been cleared to make one lane passable for cars and small trucks.

Erratic wind, challenging terrain, steep slopes, dropping humidity and the direction and location of the fire conditions make it difficult to predict the path and speed of a wildfire, Maui fire officials warned. When wind sends fire embers up and sparks ignite fires downwind, fires can start at a far distance from their source.

The American Red Cross has opened the Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani as an evacuation center. Pet owners using the shelter need to have pets properly restrained, the county said.

Kaonoulu Ranch opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals.

The cause of the fire remains under investigation.

High winds have been a concern across the state over the past few days, with the National Weather Service issuing a red flag warning through 6 a.m. Wednesday as high winds and low humidity elevate fire risk, especially in leeward areas.

Hawaiian Electric Co. is asking residents in West Maui and Upcountry to potentially prepare for an extended outage into the late evening as crews work to complete extensive repairs to poles and power lines downed by the high winds. Additional crews are arriving from Oahu to help with the restoration efforts.

About 12,400 customers are offline in West Maui, where crews are making repairs to about 30 downed poles and multiple spans of power lines in various areas, including in Puamana along Honoapiilani Highway.

About 600 customers are impacted Upcountry, including parts of Olinda and Piiholo, Makawao and Kula. Crews are making repairs to more than 30 spans of downed power lines.

Customers whose power is not restored by 7 p.m. this evening can plan for possible overnight outages, the company said.

Hawaiian Electric Co. is advising residents to stay at least 30 feet or more away from downed power lines, which may be energized. Downed power lines can be reported to 911 or HECO’s trouble line at (808) 871-7777.

HONOLULU (KHON2) — Maui officials said Wednesday that though weather conditions have improved, there are no changes in containment of the Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry fires that have been raging since Tuesday.

Get Hawaii’s latest morning news delivered to your inbox, sign up for News 2 You

On Tuesday, an emergency proclamation was issued in response to the fires and that proclamation was extended Wednesday morning.

The National Guard said they have deployed Chinooks that are actively assisting in fighting the fires. Guardsmen are also on Maui, assisting with traffic control, security, and search and rescue.


A chinook helicopter is being loaded to assist with fighting fires raging across Maui. Courtesy National Guard.
According to an early morning update on Wednesday, emergency services officials said they are treating three burn victims from Maui who have been sent to Oahu. More patients are expected to be flown out.


‘It felt like we were in hell’: Men jump in ocean to escape Lahaina fire
Active evacuations in effect for residents in these areas:
Lahaina area: Wahikuli subdivision
Kula area: Holopuni and Pulehu roads
Subdivisions north and south of Lipoa Parkway down to Maui Meadows
Kaanapali area: Kualapa Loop, Puu Anoano Street, Hakui Loop, Wekiu Place, Kaanapali Golf Estates

‘Gearing up to resume firefighting’ on Big Island
Kula residents, north of Ohukai Road, were allowed to return home Wednesday morning.

For those searching for loved ones, the American Red Cross is acting as a clearinghouse for reconnecting those who are missing. Anyone searching for loved ones is asked to call 1-800-RED-CROSS.

For those leaving Maui for Oahu, the convention center will be setup as a shelter for those that need the assistance.

For the latest visuals being sent in from Maui, click here.

First responders work to contain raging fire on Maui in Launiupoko, Hawaii, early Wednesday morning, Aug. 9, 2023. (Maui County)
First responders work to contain raging fire on Maui in Launiupoko, Hawaii, early Wednesday morning, Aug. 9, 2023. (Maui County)
Open shelters:
Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center — located in Pukalani
Maui High School — located in Kahului
Maui Preparatory Academy — located in Lahaina
War Memorial Center — located in Wailuku
Lahaina Civic Center and Kihei Community Center were used as evacuation sites, however evacuees were moved to other shelters as a precautionary measure.

Maui County is reminding evacuees that shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries and personal care items.

PHOTOS: Intensifying fires wreak havoc on Maui
As of Wednesday morning, more than 2,000 people sought services at shelters, according to the American Red Cross who is staffing the shelters.

Those wanting to assist by donating to shelters, may do so at War Memorial. It will be open for drop-offs Wednesday and Thursday, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Among the items being accepted are: non-perishable food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets. Officials are asking that donations not be dropped off at fire stations.

The airport is also acting as a shelter for visitors who can’t get to their hotel. Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke told KHON2 that there are 2,000 sheltering in the airport.

Active road closures:
No traffic, except emergency personnel, is being allowed into West Maui
Honoapiilani Highway remains open outbound only — closed at Maalaea to Lahaina bound traffic
Kahekili Highway closed at Waihee to Lahaina bound traffic
Pulehu Road closed between Omaopio Road and Kula Highway
Lahainaluna Road is closed between Honoapiilani Highway and the Lahaina Bypass
Haleakala Highway between Kulalani Drive and Kualono Place and between Kula Highway and L. Kimo Drive
Kealaloa Road is closed from Hanamu Road to Haleakala Highway
“One thing we want to make sure is that if you’re ordered to evacuate — evacuate, road closures are fast-moving depending on the necessity of it as our fire crews and our police officers deem necessary in both locations of upcountry and west Maui,” said spokesperson Mahina Martin.

She added residents should only evacuate when ordered to leave. If you are not in the immediate danger area, you’re asked to shelter in place.

Active school closures:
Due to unsafe conditions, all HIDOE public schools on Maui will be closed on Wednesday with the exception of Hana High and Elementary which will remain open.

According to the HIDEO, student boarders at Lahainaluna High School were transported to Maui High School Tuesday evening to be picked up by family members or on-island emergency contacts.

Kamehameha Schools Maui will also be closed due to the fire. Officials said “there is no immediate danger to the campus” but cited air quality as a deciding factor.

Suspended Maui bus and Human Service Transportation services:
Lahaina Islander Route #20
Lahaina Villager Route #23
Kaanapali Islander Route #25
West Maui Islander Route #28
Maui Bus ADA Paratransit Service
MEO Human Service Transportation trips to/from and within the West Maui
All Maui Bus Commuter Services
Maui County said bus riders can check the Maui Bus app for the latest updates.

While all other bus services are planned to run as scheduled, commuters may experience delays.

Impacts on businesses:
Central Pacific Bank announced its Lahaina Branch will be closed on Wednesday. Bank of Hawaii’s Lahaina and Kahanu branches are closed until further notice. Central Pacific Bank closed their Lahaina and Kihei branches.

Kaiser Permanente clinics in Lahaina and Kihei are closed. Members will be contacted to reschedule appointments.

Haleakalā National Park announced it is closed until conditions improve due to blocked road access due to the fires and winds. Camping reservations are canceled as well as sunrise reservations on Wednesday.

All public libraries on Maui are closed.

Catholic Charities announced they’re closing their Maui office for the remainder of the week.

Young Brothers have delayed its “combo sailing” to Kaumalapau/Kaunakakai until Wednesday morning. It will arrive Wednesday night and they will then attempt to enter Kaumalapau on Thursday.

Previously in Kula
Maui fire crews had batted a brush fire all night long in the upcountry area of Kula.

Crews were focusing on battling the fire up in Kula and strong winds did not help those efforts — with 80 miles per hour winds at times. Due to the wind conditions, all firefighting efforts are being done on the ground.

Residents in Kula were ordered to evacuate their homes early Tuesday as a brushfire burned near the 200 subdivision off Aulii Drive.

Evacuations occurred at:

Lahainaluna Road
Hale Mahaolu
Kelawea Mauka
Lahaina Bypass.
Winds topple electric pole in Manoa, aiding brush fire in Waipio
MFD remained at the site of the fire that burned an estimated 675 acres of pastureland and gulches, including two structures, in the Olinda area.

Strong winds impacting power outages
Upcountry residents are asked to conserve water due to power outages affecting water access in some areas.

Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023.Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023 …
Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023.Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023 …
Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023.Downed power lines on Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023 …
We had power outages because of that so that caused several road closures. Also upcountry there were downed trees which also had impact on our power. Also caused road closures — school closures. The important thing about that is letting our people know to not to go near any downed power lines assume that they’re all energized.”

MAUI MAYOR RICHARD BISSEN
Hurricane Dora on track to pass south of the Hawaiian Islands
Power outages were also affecting the island in the Lahaina area. HECO said power was restored to some parts but was still working on restoring power to parts of West Maui and Olinda-Piiholo.

An electric pole toppled over during heavy winds as Hurricane Dora passes south of the Hawaiian islands on Aug. 8, 2023. (Courtesy HECO)An electric pole toppled over during heavy winds as …Read More
An electric pole toppled over during heavy winds as Hurricane Dora passes south of the Hawaiian islands on Aug. 8, 2023. (Courtesy HECO)An electric pole toppled over during heavy winds as …Read More
Courtesy Maui Fire Department
The mayor said crews are working to restore power as quickly as possible — in the meantime, they ask residents to conserve water as electricity is needed to pump the water into homes.

Officials also ask drivers to be careful as lots of debris has been seen on the roadway.

Lahaina fire declared 100% contained, water conservation is urged
By Nuy Cho Maui
PUBLISHED 1:38 PM ET Aug. 08, 2023

According to the Maui Fire Department, the Lahaina brush fire was declared 100% contained shortly before 9 a.m. Tuesday. 

There were two people at the Lahaina Civic Center evacuation shelter as of 8:50 a.m, per the latest update.

But power outages are impacting the ability to pump water, therefore the public is asked to conserve water in West Maui.

The cause of the Lahaina brush fire remains unknown.

A brush fire was reported shortly after midnight Tuesday morning in the Olinda Road area of Kula, Maui. Between 3:45 a.m. and 4:50 a.m., residents of both the Auli’I Drive and Hanamu Road areas were evacuated.

Firefighters were on the scene (crews from Kula, Makawa, Kahului and Wailea) and the Fire Department’s Air One helicopter arrived at dawn for an aerial assessment.

A second brush fire was reported at 6:37 a.m. today in the area of Lahainaluna Road of about three acres in Lahaina. Evacuations were ordered at 6:40 a.m. in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School and fire crews from Napili, Lahaina and Kihei were on scene.

Heavy smoke conditions exist in the area, and a high-wind warning has been issued by the National Weather Service for portions of Maui County, including the Haleakala summit, remains in effect through 6 a.m. Impacted residents are advised to contact emergency responders when directed to leave the area immediately.

Please see several of the community guidelines below those who may be affected:

For Kula:

The County of Maui’s swimming pool in Pukalani has been closed due to smoke conditions
Kaonoulu Ranch has opened Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for those needing to evacuate farm and ranch animals
Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakala Highway at Lower Kimo Road, and Haleakala Highway at Kula Highway are closed to motorists
For Lahaina:

The American Red Cross has opened Lāhainā Civic Center as an evacuation center
Pet owners utilizing the shelter will need to have pets properly restrained
Editor's Note: The second brush fire's containment was added to the story. The second brush fire in Lahaina was added to the story.


MAUI COUNTY, Hawaii (KITV4) -- Maui Fire crews continue to battle brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas. Maui Mayor Bissen issued an emergency proclamation in response to the fires.

The American Red Cross has opened Maui High School as an evacuation center. School will not be in session for Maui High students August 9th. 

Shelters are now open on Maui and Hawaii Island to help those impacted by the high winds and wildfires. pic.twitter.com/Zob8CDvOBg

— HawaiiRedCross (@HawaiiRedCross) August 9, 2023
Wahikuli residents in West Maui were evacuated Tuesday evening.

The Coast Guard has been responding to impacted areas where residents are entering the ocean due to smoke and fire conditions. Individuals were transported by the Coast Guard to safe areas. The National Guard has been activated to fight the fires Wednesday. 

Earlier Tuesday, multiple structures have burned and multiple evacuations are in place, as powerful winds continue to fuel dangerous fire weather conditions, and firefighter crews battle brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas. 

In West Maui, fire crews from Napili, Lahaina, Kihei and Wailuku responded to the fast-moving fire, which was fueled by strong winds as Hurricane Dora passed well south of Hawaii.

The Upcountry fire started just after midnight Tuesday, and has grown to about 1,000 acres so far.

On the West side, evacuations occurred at Lahainaluna Road, Hale Mahaolu, Kelawea Mauka and Lahaina Bypass.

Website for @CivilDefenseHI reports Mauna Kea Fairways North rental units are being evacuated as a result of wildfire near Mauna Kea resort. https://t.co/2jpsJgwILS

— Hawaii EMA (@Hawaii_EMA) August 9, 2023
At 4:30 p.m., the Maui County Emergency Management issued an evacuation order for Kelawea Mauka Subdivision in Lahaina due to a wildfire burning in the area.

Just prior to the new Lahaina order, an evacuation order was also issued for Maui residents of the subdivision including Kulalani Drive and Kulalani Circle, in the Kula area, emergency officials said.

So basically the entire island is on fire. Somehow where I am, the driest part of the island, has been so far spared. This is Lahaina town, the popular tourist town on the island. (Not my video.) Apartments and stores have burned down. pic.twitter.com/msvj6lPgIg

— Shayla Maddox 🎨🏝️ (@shaylamaddox) August 9, 2023
Residents who live near Piiholo and Olinda roads are being urged to proactively evacuate as fire weather conditions remain extremely high, with the potential to escalate suddenly.

“The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, it can be at your house,” said Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea. “Burning airborne materials can light fires a great distance away from the main body of fire.”

Crews cleared trees and downed power lines on Olinda and Piiholo roads to make one lane passable. Now, Maui fire officials are advising residents to evacuate while they can.

Approximately 12,400 Hawaiian Electric customers in West Maui are without power as crews work to repair about 30 downed power poles and multiple spans of power lines in various areas, including in Puamana along Honoapiilani Highway, according to HECO.

In Upcountry, including parts of Olinda and Piiholo, Makawao and Kula, about 600 customers are without power, HECO said. There are another 30+ spans of downed power lines in this area.

Tap here to see the HECO outage map for Maui County.

We are asking currently affected customers in West Maui and Upcountry to potentially prepare for an extended outage into the late evening as crews work on repairs. Customers not restored by 7p this evening can plan for possible overnight outages. https://t.co/ad5ALEUFpj pic.twitter.com/5l8AiluDa1

— Hawaiian Electric - Maui County (@MauiElectric) August 9, 2023
Kula
A brush fire that erupted in the Olinda Road area of Kula in upcountry Maui shortly after midnight has led to the evacuation of residents in nearby neighborhoods, as local authorities and firefighting teams rush to contain the blaze.

The fire triggered a coordinated emergency response from multiple agencies on the Island as crews work to protect lives and property.

Driven by high winds caused by Hurricane Dora, the situation escalated rapidly overnight hours. At 3:45 a.m., residents in the Auli’i Drive area were evacuated as a precautionary measure. An hour later, at 4:50 a.m., residents of Hanamu Road were also evacuated.

945a #MauiOutage: In Upcountry Maui, crews are working to restore downed poles and lines in parts of Olinda-Piiholo and responding to outages reported in the Kula area. Mahalo for your continued patience.

— Hawaiian Electric - Maui County (@MauiElectric) August 8, 2023
Firefighters from various parts of the region, including Kula, Makawao, Kahului, and Wailea, are still out, battling the flames and working to gain control over the fire’s spread. MFD’s Air One helicopter was also deployed at daybreak to conduct an aerial assessment of the fire's extent and behavior.

The American Red Cross has established the Hannibal Tavares Community Center in Pukalani as an evacuation center. Those seeking shelter are reminded to ensure that their pets are properly restrained if they intend to bring them along. As of 7 a.m., 54 evacuated residents had come to the shelter.

Kaonoulu Ranch has also stepped in to offer assistance, opening the Oskie Rice Arena in Makawao for residents needing to evacuate their farm and ranch animals.

Lahaina
The first brush fire in the Lahaina area was first reported just after 6:30 a.m., located in the area of Lahainaluna Road. 

Officials ordered evacuations at 6:40 a.m. for residents living in the area surrounding Lahaina Intermediate School. Firefighters with the Napili, Lahaina, and Kihei departments were called out to battle the blaze. This was declared 100% contained just before 10 a.m.

Just before 4:30 p.m., another wildfire was reported to be burning near the Kelawea Mauka Subdivision. It is unclear how large this fire has grown.

The American Red Cross has opened Lahaina Civic Center as an evacuation center.

Winds in the area remain a concern. A high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service (NWS) for portions of Maui County remains in effect through 6 a.m. Wednesday.

Play Video
spaceplay / pause qunload | stop ffullscreenshift + ←→slower / faster
↑↓volume mmute
←→seek  . seek to previous12… 6 seek to 10%, 20% … 60%
Haleakala Highway 337 is shut down and families are forced to evacuate due to a brush fire in the area.

Road Closures
Kula

Emergency road closures have been implemented to contain the situation and facilitate firefighters. Kealaloa Avenue, Haleakala Highway at Lower Kimo Road, and Haleakala Highway at Kula Highway have all been closed to give fire crews unimpeded access to the affected areas.

Lahaina

Police have shut down Lahainaluna Road is closed between Honoapiilani Hwy and the Lahaina Bypass due to the fire. 

The Honoapiilani Hwy is closed to Lahaina bound traffic at Leialii Pkwy; Kaanapali bound is open.

Authorities have shut down Lahainaluna Road between Kelawea Street and Kuialua Street due to the fire.

Weather Conditions and Warnings
The situation is further complicated by heavy smoke conditions and a high-wind warning issued by the National Weather Service (NWS) for various parts of Maui County, including the Haleakala summit. The warning remains in effect through 6 a.m. on Wednesday.

Impacted residents are strongly advised to act promptly and listen to emergency responders, evacuating the area immediately with their families, pets, and necessary supplies.

The situation remains fluid, and local authorities are working diligently to bring the fire under control and ensure the safety and well-being of all affected individuals.

School Closures
The fire has caused Hawaii Education officials to close schools in West Maui. According to HIDOE, the clsoures were necessary due to unsafe conditions caused by heavy winds, including flying debris, downed power poles and trees. Most of the schools were not scheduled to have students on campus, officials said.

Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary: School closed to students and staff. Families have been notified by the school.

King Kamehameha III Elementary: Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today.

Lahaina Intermediate: Previously scheduled waiver day; no students were scheduled to be at school today.

Lahainaluna High School: Freshman student orientation canceled. Previously scheduled waiver day for grades 10-12.

King Kekaulike High will be closed to students and staff, August 9. 

Kamehameha Schools Maui and ʻAʻapueo Preschool are closed today due to the brush fire located ma uka of the Pukalani campus.

Seabury Hall has closed its campus and canceled all events due to the fire, mandatory road closures and evacuations in the area.

Haleakalā Waldorf School middle and high school facilities have been canceled out of an abundance of precaution. Parents and guardians are asked to “reach out if you have any questions or concerns.”
