11:41 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Hawaii is seeking a presidential emergency declaration due to wild fires
From CNN's Elizabeth Joseph

Hawaii is seeking a presidential emergency declaration from President Joe Biden, Gov. Josh Green told CNN's Sara Sidner Wednesday evening.

"I have been in touch with the White House to make sure that we get a favorable approval of a presidential declaration of emergency. They've been really generous with us so we will rebuild, but right now it's safety first," he said.
The governor said he's asked for resources from the Federal Emergency Management Agency along with "additional firefighter resources, which the state's already authorized, and we've declared an emergency here as has Maui County."

"Next, though, will come the presidential order which is for a major disaster, and that's based on how much structural damage has occurred," Green said, adding he expects "billions of dollars of structural damage to be determined."


11:33 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
More than 271 structures impacted in Lahaina fire
From CNN's Taylor Romine

More than 271 structures have been impacted in Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii, following a sprawling wildfire, according to a news release from Maui County Wednesday.  

“Flyovers today of Lahaina town by US Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department showed that more than 271 structures have been impacted. Widespread damage to the West Maui town, the harbor and surrounding areas are being documented,” the county said.  
There are no significant changes reported in the Lahaina, Upcountry and Pūlehu fires and no new evacuations, the county said. 

About 100 Maui firefighters “have been on duty around the clock” and are currently addressing spot fires around Lahaina, the county said, and the Maui Fire Department requested an additional 20 firefighters from Honolulu and an incident management team.

Three helicopters from the US Coast Guard and US Navy conducted search and rescue efforts along the west Maui coastline, and a federal team arrived Wednesday to help in search efforts as well, the release said.


11:16 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Officials will hold a news conference at 3 a.m. ET
From CNN’s Joe Sutton

Officials in Hawaii are set to hold a news conference at 3 a.m. ET (9 p.m. local time), according to two staff members with the Hawaii Lieutenant Governor’s Office. 


11:03 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
"We have never seen anything like it," Maui resident says
From CNN's Raja Razek

Daniel Sullivan appears on CNN on Wednesday, August 9.
Daniel Sullivan appears on CNN on Wednesday, August 9. CNN
Resident Daniel Sullivan described the scene as "apocalyptic" as fires surrounded his neighborhood in Maui.

With his kids downstairs in his home, he went to the roof and watched flames get "closer and closer – and we had no way to get out because the roads were blocked."

His home survived but he said many friends had lost theirs in the wildfires that erupted overnight on Maui. "The island has been decimated," he told CNN's Kaitlin Collins.

"The fire was blocking anything that didn't have a tree falling on it, and the shelters that people had gone to were having to be evacuated because the fires were taking over the shelters," he said. "It was apocalyptic. We have never seen anything like it."

10:13 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Maui Memorial Medical Center is treating 5 patients, 2 with "critical injuries" related to the wildfires
From CNN's Taylor Romine

Maui Memorial Medical Center is treating five people, including two people with "critical injuries," for “burn, smoke inhalation, and other fire-related injuries” as a result of the fires on the island, the center said in a news release Wednesday.  

"Additionally, since last night, seven patients have been transferred to Oahu for specialty services, including some fire-related injuries. All other patients have been treated and released," the statement said.

The health system is prepared “to activate a surge plan should the demand for medical services spike,” and is working with other health systems nearby “to ensure the timely treatment of care,” the center added.    


9:14 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
2 new brushfires erupt on Hawaii Island, county mayor says
From CNN's Joe Sutton

Two new brush fires have erupted on Hawaii Island as officials work to extinguish the ongoing deadly wildfires impacting the state, according to a post from Hawaii County Mayor Mitch Roth.

Emergency crews are responding to the new fires swiftly, Roth said on Facebook.

“Mauna Kea Beach & lower Kohala Ranch areas remain under blaze. Safety measures are in place,” Roth’s post continued.
No other details were provided about the fires but the post said further updates on the new fires would be forthcoming.


9:40 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Maui man recounts how his dad thought the family was dead after returning home to burned home
From CNN's Raja Razek

Dustin Kaleiopu appears on CNN on Wednesday, August 9.
Dustin Kaleiopu appears on CNN on Wednesday, August 9. CNN
Maui resident Dustin Kaleiopu recalled how his father returned to their family home Wednesday to find it burned to the ground.

He assumed "everybody had died in the fire," Kaleiopu told CNN's Erin Burnett.

"I wasn't home when the fire started. I was staying at my brother's house like a mile or two away from home, and I live with my dad and my grandpa," he said. "My dad called me and said, 'Hey, I heard there is a fire, I can't get in touch with your grandpa. Go and check on him.'"
When Kaleiopu arrived at his home, he said, it was windy at the time with a "little bit of smoke but nothing major going on."

"My brother ends up joining us, and we fall asleep because there was nothing else to do. Everything was closed — no electricity," he continued. "We woke up at about 3:30, 4:00 o'clock, and the wind started howling, and the smoke started getting closer." 
At this time, Kaleiopu's brother drove two blocks from the home and saw that his office was on fire. 

"Then the smoke started getting thicker and blacker, and the condominium across the street from my house looked like it had started to catch fire as well," he said. "I told my grandpa that we needed to go." 

He compared the wildfire to a fire from five years ago – when the fire department was at their door asking them to evacuate. This time there was "no warning at all."

"We had to wait until everything was on fire because we had no ability to know really how much of it was really going on," he said. 
The street was "burned to the ground" when Kaleiopu's father drove by an hour later,

"Driving his truck through the street, which is on fire, there are downed power lines. he is driving over rubble, trying to look for us."
Kaleiopu's brother reunited with their dad after catching sight of his father in the traffic evacuating town.

"When my dad realized that it was my brother, he completely lost it," Kaleiopu said. "Because he had assumed that everybody had died in the fire just by how drastic things had been when he got there after being at work all day."


8:48 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Meteorologist says winds should pull back in the next few hours, but very little rain is expected for fires
From CNN’s Joe Sutton

Hawaii experienced its most intense winds Tuesday, with gusts up to 60-80 mph, according to Ian Morrison, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Honolulu.

The winds Wednesday “dropped down a notch” and the gusts are up to 50 mph, Morrison said in a phone interview with CNN.

A wind advisory and red flag warnings will remain in effect until around 6 p.m. local (12 a.m. ET). 

Morrison said the winds will ease over the next 24 hours and return to typical Hawaii trade winds with 10-20 mph sustained winds with gusts to 30 mph by Friday.

But he cautioned that “dropping winds doesn’t mean the fires will go away” although it will assist the firefighters.

“Very little rain is expected for the fires on Maui and the Big Island,” he added. 

8:09 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
More than 2,100 people were housed overnight Tuesday across 4 emergency shelters in Maui, mayor's office says
People evacuated from the fires take refuge in a an emergency shelter.
People evacuated from the fires take refuge in a an emergency shelter. KGMB/KHNL
More than 2,100 people were housed between four emergency shelters in Maui, Hawaii, the island mayor's communications department said in a statement Wednesday.

While fire departments are unable to accept donations for shelters, "non-perishible food, bottled water, hygiene items and blankets are being accepted" at the War Memorial Complex, the largest sports and recreation facility in the Maui Parks system, between 8am and 6pm, the statement says.

As of Wednesday evening, firefighters continue to combat fires in Lahaina, Pulehu and Upcountry "that were fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as it passed well south of the Hawaiian islands," the statement says.


7:55 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Travelers scramble in Hawaii amid raging wildfires
From CNN's Marnie Hunter and Forrest Brown

Devastating wildfires in the Hawaiian Islands – coupled with vast communication gaps created by the interruption of services – have left many travelers in limbo as they struggle to leave the especially hard-hit island of Maui or reschedule imminent travel plans.

State officials were working with hotels and a local airline to try to evacuate tourists in Maui to another island, Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told CNN on Wednesday morning. But severed communications have hobbled efforts to reach everyone.

Maui’s Kahului Airport (OGG) is open, the Hawaii Department of Transportation posted on social media platform X, formerly known as Twitter. The HDOT urged patience at the airport. and also provided details on reaching the airport via a bypass.

Nonessential inbound travel to Maui is strongly discouraged, Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaii State Department of Transportation, said Wednesday at a news conference.

Travel adviser Jim Bendt said Pique Travel Design is advising clients traveling to Maui in the next week to reschedule their trips to “help ease the burden on local infrastructure.”

Pique Travel will be working with its partners on the island to waive or minimize cancellation and change fees, he said.

Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines all are offering travel waivers for travel to Maui allowing passengers to change plans without penalty.

“Guests with non-urgent travel inquiries are encouraged to call back later so that we can assist those with immediate needs,” Hawaiian Airlines posted on social platform X. The airline urged travelers to check their flight status before going to the airport.
Bendt said travelers with plans to visit islands other than Maui won’t need to change their plans.

“Hotels and tours are operating as normal,” he said.
As for what's next for travel to Maui, it's a wait-and-see situation.

“Natural disasters are, by nature, quick-moving. If you have a trip to Maui a few weeks from now, your best bet, for now, is to wait and see if the fires get contained,” said Scott Keyes, founder of travel site Going.com.

Keyes said that “there’s no added benefit to canceling a trip a few weeks in advance versus a few days in advance.”

Read more:


8:01 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Maui area shelters call for fosters as they overflow with animals displaced during fires
From CNN’s Sara Smart

Animal shelters in Maui are overflowing as many animals have been displaced during the wildfires.

The Maui Humane Society has been overwhelmed with the number of animals that have arrived at the shelter, with some cages doubled up with dogs, Paige Daniels, a resident of Makawao, told CNN.

Daniels went to the shelter to foster a dog on Wednesday afternoon and said many other residents were doing the same.

Daniels isn’t entirely sure how long they will be fostering the dog they picked up, named Kumo, as the wildfires continue to burn. Despite the sun shining in the area, the energy on the entire island is somber, Daniels explained.

The humane society is asking any residents that can help to foster animals, drop off any supplies that they can or donate if they’re able to.


7:47 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Hawaiian Electric crews working to restore power to at least 12,400 customers in West Maui and others
From CNN’s Joe Sutton

Crews with Hawaiian Electric are asking people to be patient as crews work to restore power to residents affected in West Maui and Upcountry.

"We are all hands on deck in supporting and responding to Maui communities affected by the outages, active wildfires, and sustained high wind damage," spokesperson Shayna Decken said in a statement Wednesday. "Our focus right now is the safety of our communities, customers, and workforce and prioritizing power restoration to areas that our crews can safely access."

Approximately 12,400 customers remain in the dark in West Maui and crews are assessing the damage from the wildfire and working to repair multiple downed poles and power lines in various areas.  

Additional help is coming in from Oahu to assist with the “massive restoration efforts.”


7:49 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Devastating Maui wildfires rage, leaving a path of destruction. Here's the latest
From CNN staff

Smoke and flames rise in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday, August 9.
Smoke and flames rise in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday, August 9. Jeff Melichar/TMX/Reuters
At least six people have been killed by wildfires in Hawaii, according to Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen Jr.

Search and rescue efforts are still ongoing, he said, warning that the number of people killed could go up as more information becomes available.

At least six other people were injured, Bissen said. Three of those were burn-related, he said. A firefighter was also taken to the hospital and treated for smoke inhalation.

Many structures have been destroyed, several of them burnt "to the ground," Bissen said.

It is impossible to know the extent of the damage caused by wildfires in Hawaii because the flames continue to make their way across parts of the Big Island and Maui, Bissen said.

The main focus of officials and first responders is to “save lives and preserve lives,” he said. The secondary focus is to try to save property — both objectives, fire departments are working very hard to do. They are working 24-hour shifts battling the blazes, he said.

As of this morning, most of the fires on Maui are not yet contained, Bissen said.

Here are the latest developments:

More than 2,000 people in shelters with several unaccounted for: "We have over 2,100 people in shelters. Within those shelters, I mentioned to you — and several that are unaccounted for in the sense that they are in their cars and did not come into the actual shelter," Bissen said.
Officials discourage nonessential travel to Maui: Nonessential travel to Maui is strongly discouraged as unprecedented wildfires affect the area, according to Ed Sniffen, director of the Hawaii State Department of Transportation. Approximately 2,000 people stayed overnight at the airport in Maui, Sniffen said Wednesday at a news conference. He noted that another 4,000 visitors want to leave the island from the west side. "Today we signed another emergency proclamation which will discourage tourists from going to Maui," Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said. "Even as of this morning, planes were landing on Maui with tourists. This is not a safe place to be."

Thousands are without cell service: Thousands of people in Maui, Hawaii, are without cell service as the wildfires continue to rage out of control on the island, preventing people from calling emergency services or updating loved ones about their status, according to authorities. It could take days or even weeks to get the networks back up and running. "911 is down. Cell service is down. Phone service is down," Luke told CNN on Wednesday morning.
Hot and dry winds "set the conditions for the wildfires," official says: While officials have not begun investigating the cause of the fires in Maui, the area had been under fire risk, according to Maj. Gen. Kenneth S. Hara, the Adjutant General for the State of Hawaii, Department of Defense. The National Weather Service had issued a red flag warning, which means warm temperatures, low humidity, strong winds and increased fire danger, according to the weather agency."That set the conditions for the wildfires," Hara said
Here's how you can help Hawaii wildfire victims: Click here to support relief efforts. Impact Your World will continue to monitor the situation and provide updates with more ways to help.

7:31 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Biden expresses condolences and details federal support for Hawaii wildfires
From CNN's Betsy Klein

Biden speaks in Belen, New Mexico, on Wednesday, August 9, 2023.
Biden speaks in Belen, New Mexico, on Wednesday, August 9, 2023. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters
President Joe Biden shared his condolences and detailed ongoing federal support efforts for Hawaiians amid raging wildfires that have killed at least six people and have prompted thousands of residents to shelter.

“Jill and I send our deepest condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones in the wildfires in Maui, and our prayers are with those who have seen their homes, businesses, and communities destroyed," Biden said in a statement Wednesday. "We are grateful to the brave firefighters and first responders who continue to run toward danger, putting themselves in harm’s way to save lives.”
Biden said he has ordered federal assets to assist with wildfire response, pointing to the Hawaiian National Guard that's mobilizing Chinook helicopters “to help with fire suppression and search and rescue on the Island of Maui” as well as response and rescue from the US Coast Guard and Navy fleets. Marines, he added, “are providing Black Hawk Helicopters to fight the fires on the Big Island.”

And as local officials are discouraging nonessential travel to Maui, Biden noted “the Department of Transportation is working with commercial airlines to evacuate tourists from Maui, and the Department of the Interior and the United States Department of Agriculture stand ready to support post fire recovery efforts.”

Biden urged residents to “follow evacuation orders, listen to the instructions of first responders and officials, and stay alert.”

The president has not yet issued a disaster declaration.

Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said earlier Wednesday he expects to submit a request for a presidential disaster declaration “in the next 36 to 48 hours.” Green said the White House “has been incredibly supportive.”


7:18 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
"We are just so heartbroken and devastated," lieutenant governor says on deadly wildfires
Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke
Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke CNN
Wildfires in Maui are devastating, Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said.

"It's been so shocking and devastating. Not just for Maui, but the entire Hawaii community," Luke said.

She noted that so far six lives have been lost and "this is just the beginning, initial assessment."

Officials are still assessing property damage and other potential losses she said.

Luke noted that power outages, loss of cell service and overall disruptions hindered search and rescue efforts.

"The wildfires were exacerbated by the gusts of winds that reached anywhere between 70 to 80 miles per hour. So quickly, these flames reached other neighborhoods. They jumped highways and freeways and destroyed people's homes," she said

Cell services were impacted and calls to 911 were disrupted, she said.

"People couldn't call 911. The only people who could make calls were individuals with satellite service," Luke said.
Luke also talked about the difficulties of being an island state, which impacted response time.

"We can't just drive to the next island, next town and assist," she said. Luke added that because of the high winds, it was difficult to fly out support. "We couldn't fly them from one island to the next and that impeded and that led to even more slower response," she said.

Luke said that officials will take a closer look at that issue. "The fact that people's lives were lost. Properties were lost. I mean people's homes were damaged. You know, this is just a terrible day."


7:14 p.m. ET, August 9, 2023
Multiple fires continue to burn on Big Island in Hawaii County
From CNN’s Sara Smart and Joe Sutton

Crews are working to maintain multiple brushfires taking place in Hawaii County on the Big Island.

The Akoni Pule Highway fire is about 60% contained as of Wednesday morning local time, according to an update from the Hawai’i Fire Department. It continues to remain a threat to structures in the area.

Guests are sheltered in place at the Mauna Kea Resort, the department says, as multiple more fires burn on the Mauna Kea Beach area. Crews are on scene to assist and are working to contain the fires.

Emergency officials in California are monitoring the situation and are in contact with emergency personnel in the state as well.

Hawaii County is located on the Big Island and is separate from the fire that is burning in Maui, which is also still burning.



SKIP TO CONTENT

SHARE & SAVE —



Search NBC News

PROFILE

 SIGN IN
CREATE YOUR FREE PROFILE
SECTIONS

U.S. NEWS
POLITICS
WORLD
LOCAL
BUSINESS
HEALTH
INVESTIGATIONS
CULTURE & TRENDS
SCIENCE
SPORTS
TECH & MEDIA
VIDEO FEATURES
PHOTOS
WEATHER
NBC SELECT
DECISION 2024
NBC ASIAN AMERICA
NBC BLK
NBC LATINO
NBC OUT
TV

TODAY
NIGHTLY NEWS
MSNBC
MEET THE PRESS
DATELINE
FEATURED

NBC NEWS NOW
BETTER
NIGHTLY FILMS
STAY TUNED
SPECIAL FEATURES
NEWSLETTERS
PODCASTS
LISTEN NOW
MORE FROM NBC

CNBC
NBC.COM
NBCU ACADEMY
NBC LEARN
PEACOCK
NEXT STEPS FOR VETS
PARENT TOOLKIT
NBC NEWS SITE MAP
HELP
FOLLOW NBC NEWS

Facebook
Twitter
Email
SMS
Print
Whatsapp
Reddit
Pocket
Flipboard
Pinterest
Linkedin
EVENT ENDED
Last updated Aug. 10, 2023, 6:03 AM BST
Maui fires: 6 dead, at least 271 structures impacted as Hawaii battles blazes
The full extent of the damage may not be known for weeks or even months, acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said.

00:33 /02:55



'There's nothing to go back to': Hawaii wildfire evacuee shares harrowing escape
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:36 AM BST
Satellite images capture devastation in Lahaina from wildfires
Tim Stelloh and Phil Helsel

Satellite images captured the devastation on Maui Wednesday after a wildfire tore through Lahaina, a popular vacation destination on the island’s west coast that was once the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii.

In one image from the company Maxar Technologies, the historic area of Banyan Court — home to the island’s oldest living banyan tree, at 150 years old — appears to have mostly been reduced to ash.

Before and after satellite views of southern Lahaina, Maui, from left, June 25, 2023 to Aug. 9, 2023.
Satellite images show southern Lahaina, Maui, on June 25, left, and Wednesday, right.Satellite image ©2023 Maxar Technologies
Other images showed similar devastation in and around Lahaina Square, a shopping area, and a neighborhood on the southern end of the town.

Read the full story here.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:07 AM BST
Visitors asked to leave Maui as soon as possible due to crisis

Phil Helsel

Visitors “with vehicles or any means of transportation” are being asked to leave the fire-ravaged Lahaina area and Maui as soon as possible, county officials said today.

The county made the request because officials have limited resources in what it described as a crisis.

Buses will be taking people from Sheraton Maui Resort in Kaʻanapali to Kahului Airport, the county said.

Widespread damage has been seen in Lahaina in western Maui from one of three wildfires. At least six people are dead, and western Maui does not have power or cell service.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 4:46 AM BST
Firefighters battling spot fires around Lahaina, no new evacuations

Phil Helsel

More than 100 Maui firefighters were battling three wildfires today, and helicopters have been making water drops and conducting searches, Maui County said.

No new evacuations were ordered in Maui, which has faced severe wind-fueled wildfires, but the damage in the western Maui town of Lahaina was called widespread.

There are three fires on Maui — the Lahaina, Pūlehu and Upcountry fires. The National Guard and other military units are assisting with helicopters doing water drops, officials said.

Firefighters in Lahaina were putting out spot fires around the community of around 12,700, the county said in a statement.

FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell also tweeted that she has spoken with the state’s lieutenant governor, and that the agency has authorized federal assistance to help firefighting efforts.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 4:33 AM BST

People flee Hawaii on boat to escape wildfire smoke
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 4:21 AM BST
‘Everyone I know in Lahaina, their homes have been burned down’

Phil Helsel

Residents who have fled their homes in advance of devastating wildfires have shared their heartbreak and uncertainty with NBC affiliate KHNL of Honolulu.

“Everyone I know in Lahaina, their homes have been burned down,” Tiare Lawrence, of the community on the western edge of Maui, told the station. She said she was trying to make sure everyone in her family is safe.

This handout video grab courtesy of Richard Olsten taken on August 9, 2023 shows smoke billowing from destroyed buildings as wildfires burn across Maui, Hawaii. At least six people have been killed in a wildfire that has razed a Hawaiian town, officials said Wednesday, as desperate residents jumped into the ocean in a bid to escape the fast-moving flames.
An aerial view of smoke billowing from destroyed buildings as wildfires burn across Maui, Hawaii, on Wednesday.Richard Olsten / AFP - Getty Images
Holly Zackious, of Kula, found her home was intact but told the station that others in the neighborhood were burned to the ground.

“It’s awful the amount of damage that this fire wreaked havoc,” she said. “We’re praying for Lahaina.”

Gabe Johnson, Maui County council member for the island of Lāna’i, told KHNL that those who have not been affected are coming to help others.

“We rebuild. You know, Lahaina strong,” Johnson told the station. “It’s not just an expression.”

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:47 AM BST
At least 271 structures damaged or destroyed in Maui fires
Andrew Blankstein and Phil Helsel

At least 271 structures have been damaged, destroyed or otherwise impacted in the western Maui town of Lahaina after a devastating wildfire, Maui County officials said.

The state’s lieutenant governor said earlier today that it could be weeks or months before the full damage of the fires on Maui is known.

Fires continue to burn both on Maui and the island of Hawaii and high-speed and erratic winds continue to make it difficult to fly aircraft to get a better sense of the totality of the damage, a Hawaii Emergency Management Agency official said.

"Widespread damage to the West Maui town, the harbor and surrounding areas are being documented," the county said in a statement.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:22 AM BST
Wildfire decimates Lahaina, once the capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom
Sakshi Venkatraman and Kimmy Yam

A historic seaside town that once was the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii has been largely reduced to ash as wildfires continued to rip through the state Wednesday. 

Hawaiians say Lahaina’s disaster leaves them mourning the loss of a place dense with Native Hawaiian history and culture — and they’re bracing for what the tragedy will mean for their communities in the long term. 

Smoke drifts westward from two wildfires visible on satellite imagery taken over the island of Maui in Hawaii, U.S. August 9, 2023.   GOES:(CSU/CIRA & NOAA)/Handout via REUTERS 
THIS IMAGE HAS BEEN SUPPLIED BY A THIRD PARTY.
Smoke drifts westward from two wildfires visible on satellite imagery taken over the island of Maui in Hawaii, on Wednesday.GOES: CSU/CIRA & NOAA via Reuters
“People are worried about their loved ones, their homes, their businesses, their jobs,” said David Aiona Chang, who is Native Hawaiian and a professor of history at the University of Minnesota. “So many of the disasters that hit Hawaii hit Native Hawaiians the hardest. It’s something that we are going to be dealing with for a long time.”

Read the full story here.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:03 AM BST
Satellite imagery shows Maui fires
NBC News

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 2:53 AM BST
Aerial video shows devastation in Maui
NBC News

Helicopter video from Air Maui Helicopter Tours in Lahaina shows the devastation in the community of around 12,700 on the western coast of Maui, after wildfires.


Aerial video captures the devastation from deadly wildfires in Hawaii
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 2:32 AM BST
Two patients in Maui fires in critical condition, hospital says

Phil Helsel

Two of five people being cared for at Maui Memorial Medical Center following wildfires on the island were in critical condition, Maui Health said today.

The hospital is treating five people in all, and seven others have been sent to Oahu for specialty services, some of whom suffered fire-related injuries, Maui Health, a nonprofit hospital organization, said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 2:21 AM BST
Two new brushfires on Hawaii's Big Island

Phil Helsel

Two new brushfires started today on the island of Hawaii, also known as the Big Island, where fires have also been burning, officials said.

Hawaii County Mayor Mitch Roth has said the focus should be on Maui, where devastating wildfires have occurred, causing at least six deaths.

The new fires were in the Kaʻū region, and one of those was under control, the Hawaii Fire Department said.

The Akoni Pule Highway brushfire is about 60% contained but is threatening structures, according to the Fire Department, and there are fires in the Mauna Kea Beach area. People at the Mauna Kea Resort have been told to shelter in place.

Roth in a video briefing earlier today thanked assistance from state agencies and the National Guard in dealing with brushfires on the island.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 1:51 AM BST

Watch: Maui boat worker runs down pier warning boaters of wildfire
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 1:22 AM BST
Full damage may not be known for weeks or months

Phil Helsel

It’s expected to take weeks before officials know the full scale of the damage to Maui in the wake of wildfires, Hawaii’s lieutenant governor said today.

“This is not going to be a short journey. It’s going to take weeks and maybe months to assess the full damage,” Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke, who is acting governor until the governor returns early from a trip, said.

A wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Aug. 9, 2023.
A wildfire in Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday.Zeke Kalua / County of Maui via AFP - Getty Images
She said the state will provide whatever assistance possible, and federal aid was also sent or being sent to help in the wildfires and the aftermath.

“We will rebuild,” Maui County Mayor Richard Bissen said at a news briefing.

Two UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters with water buckets, as well as three CH-47 Chinook with 2,000 gallon water buckets, have been or were being sent to Maui today to help, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth S. Hara, adjutant general for the state.

Also sent with one of the Chinooks is an “enhanced emergency response force package,” which involves a specialized team capable of confined space search and rescue, he said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 1:02 AM BST
Maui has seen winds of over 50 mph

Phil Helsel

High winds from passing Hurricane Dora may have helped fuel wildfires in Maui, and today the National Weather Service said gusts on the island have reached as high as 67 mph.

We apologize, this video has expired.

Fire risk continues in Hawaii as high winds rip though the state
In the 48 hour period between 10 a.m. Honolulu time Monday and Wednesday morning, the highest recorded gusts were between 45 and 67 mph, according to the weather service.

Forecasters had warned of fire risk due to high winds starting Monday, and a “red flag” warning about fires had also been issued.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 12:33 AM BST
NBC News


Hawaii’s Lt. Gov. speaks on deadly wildfires in Maui
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 11:53 PM BST
Biden orders ‘all available federal assets’ to help

Phil Helsel

President Joe Biden and the first lady today expressed their condolences to the people of Maui, and Biden pledged assistance from federal assets.

“Jill and I send our deepest condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones in the wildfires in Maui, and our prayers are with those who have seen their homes, businesses, and communities destroyed,” Biden said in a statement. “We are grateful to the brave firefighters and first responders who continue to run toward danger, putting themselves in harm’s way to save lives.”

Biden said he has “ordered all available Federal assets on the Islands to help with response.” The Hawaii National Guard, U.S. Coast Guard and the Navy’s Third Fleet is assisting, he said.

Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said that the state will be submitting a request for a presidential disaster declaration once officials know the scope of the devastation. Such declarations allow increased federal aid.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 10:55 PM BST
Urgent care clinics in Lahaina can’t treat patients, say their structures are either damaged or destroyed

Aria Bendix

Cliff Alakai, an administrator at Maui Medical Group, said he learned on Facebook that the group's Lahaina urgent care facility was damaged.

"One of our IT people found a picture and put a circle around our clinic. It’s a two-story clinic. It looks like the second floor is heavily damaged," Alakai said.

Alakai said Maui Medical Group operates four additional outpatient clinics outside Lahaina that are open to patients, but many Lahaina residents are hesitant to leave the area because road closures would prevent them from returning home, he said. Employees who live in Lahaina have called out of work, but so far appear to be safe, he added.

“Our employees who live out there are calling to say, ‘Yeah, we’re all right. Our house burned down, but we’re fine. We got out in time,’” Alakai said.

Justin Prouty, owner of Minit Medical Urgent Care, said he assumes his Lahaina facility is no longer standing.

"All reports coming out of Lahaina are super sketchy right now. There’s just no news there, no cell service so nobody can get any information. It sounds like a couple of our employees have lost their homes," Prouty said. "I’ve had reports that places around our clinic are burned to the ground, so my guess is our clinic is too."

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 10:40 PM BST
Avoid nonessential travel to Maui, officials urge
Doha Madani

With wildfires raging, Hawaii officials urged both residents and tourists to avoid all nonessential travel to Maui.

There were at least 2,000 people at the airport overnight either attempting to leave or waiting for new flights to come in, according to Hawaii Department of Transportation Director Ed Sniffen.

"We made sure that we process them through this morning. We were working with our airline partners on all of that," Sniffen said. "There's another 4,000 visitors that we're expecting who want to leave the island from the west side."

Sniffen also noted that traffic on the highways will be congested as people are evacuated and certain areas of the island remain inaccessible.

Acting Gov. Luke also discouraged tourism to Maui as authorities struggle to contain the wildfires.

"This is not a safe place to be in certain parts of Maui," Luke said. "We have shelters that are overrun. We have resources that are being taxed."

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 10:05 PM BST

Nigel Chiwaya

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 9:49 PM BST
Helicopters able to take off for water drops as winds reduce
Doha Madani

The Kula Fire has not been contained on Maui, but officials are hopeful that the situation will improve now that firefighters can deploy water overhead.

"I think a big thing that was hampering us yesterday is because of the high winds, we were not able to get helicopters in the air," Mayor Richard T. Bissen Jr. said. "It was not safe for them to do water drops. Apparently as of this morning that situation has improved."

Almost 100 firefighters have been working in shifts, including 11 who work for the state airport firefighting and rescue teams. Maui first responders were also offered assets from other local and federal partners.

The military has provided Black Hawk helicopters and a Chinook helicopter in addition to aircraft from the Hawaii National Guard, according to Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, speaking on behalf of the Department of Defense.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 9:36 PM BST

'Everything in Lahaina has been decimated,’ Maui resident says
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 9:33 PM BST
'Focus right now is to save lives and preserve lives'
Doha Madani

Maui officials say that it's "impossible" at this point to quantify the structural damage from the deadly fires.

"Our main focus right now is to save lives and preserve lives," Mayor Richard T. Bissen Jr. said.

FEMA will assist with property assessments, Luke said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 9:19 PM BST
6 deaths confirmed in Maui, mayor says
Doha Madani

At least six people have died in the wildfires, and search-and-rescue efforts continue, Mayor Richard T. Bissen Jr. said.

Bissen said he's unsure of how that number might change as authorities continue to battle the flames.

"There were a lot of people putting things out on social media; we have not had a chance to yet to confirm any of that," he said. "We are still in that phase of gathering information."

More than 2,100 people have been housed in shelters.

Hawaii County Mayor Mitch Roth said no fatalities had been confirmed in his county.


Maui mayor confirms six fatalities in wildfires
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 8:45 PM BST
Burn patients flown to Honolulu
Several burn patients from Maui were being treated at Straub Medical Center, the hospital said in a statement. The facility has the only specialized burn unit in Hawaii.

The Honolulu Emergency Services Department transported one woman in her 60s from Maui to the burn center, agency spokesperson Shayne Enright said. The woman was in critical condition.

The department has also received reports of multiple patients being flown from Maui to Honolulu, she said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 8:26 PM BST
Maui issues water conservation advisory

Alicia Victoria Lozano

Maui's water department is asking consumers across the island to conserve water to reduce demand and extend existing supplies.

 "The Department of Water Supply urges all residents and visitors to please be mindful of their water use and especially reduce outdoor water use," it said in a statement. "The Water Department is working diligently to ensure our resources are used as efficiently as possible and we need the community to do their part."

Customers are asked to not wash cars, sidewalks or driveways, or irrigate lawns until further notice.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 7:49 PM BST


Maui resident describes ‘terrifying’ wildfire in Lahaina
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 7:49 PM BST
Hawaii governor says he expects ‘some loss of life’ in wildfire catastrophe
Marlene Lenthang

Green said Wednesday he anticipates there will be casualties as a result of the wind-fueled wildfires scorching the islands.

“Heroic efforts by first responders have prevented many casualties from occurring, but some loss of life is expected,” he said in a statement. 

Green called the severe weather a “terrible disaster,” noting the wildfires have “spread widely” because of Dora's winds and the region already had underlying drought conditions. 

“Much of Lāhainā on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced,” he said. 

Green said he anticipates submitting a request for a presidential disaster declaration in the next 36 to 48 hours once the damage extent is assessed. 

He had been on personal travel until Aug. 15 but will return to the islands Wednesday night to respond to the crisis. 


‘Loss of life’ expected in Hawaii wildfire, Gov. Green says
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 7:35 PM BST
Hawaii officials to hold news conference on wildfire
Marlene Lenthang

Hawaii state officials will host a briefing on the wildfires and the impact of Dora at 10 a.m. local time (4 p.m. ET) Wednesday. 

Luke, who is serving as acting governor because Green is traveling, will speak, along with the Hawaii County and Maui County mayors.


SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 7:20 PM BST
Emergency proclamation issued for Maui air travel
Marlene Lenthang

Luke issued an emergency proclamation Wednesday to extend the state of emergency to all counties and to discourage “non-essential air travel to Maui.”

The proclamation cited ongoing wildfires in Hawaii, fanned by Dora's winds.

“This is an unprecedented disaster as an indirect result of Hurricane Dora passing just south of our islands,” Luke said. “It is truly devastating and my heart goes out to the residents of Maui and all those impacted.”

The proclamation discouraging travel will allow the state to “prioritize our scarce resources for Maui residents who desperately need assistance," she said. 

Under the proclamation, visitors to West Maui are encouraged to depart the island as soon and as safely as possible. 

Wednesday's announcement follows Tuesday’s initial emergency proclamation authorizing the activation of the National Guard and authorizing state general revenue funds to be used for relief. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 7:02 PM BST
It has already been a devastating year for extreme weather

Denise Chow

It may be days or weeks before the full extent of damage from the wildfires in Hawaii is known, but the blazes add to what has already been a devastating year of weather and climate disasters.

A report released Tuesday by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration found that there were more billion-dollar disasters in the first seven months of 2023 than in any year since 1980, when the agency began tracking these events.

Scientists at NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Information said there have been 15 extreme weather events so far this year that each caused at least $1 billion in damage. These included severe storms, tornado outbreaks, hail, one flooding event and one winter storm.

NOAA said these climate and weather disasters caused 113 direct and indirect fatalities and resulted in more than $39.7 billion in damage from January through July.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 6:41 PM BST
Hawaiian Airlines offers refunds because of wildfires
Marlene Lenthang

Hawaiian Airlines tweeted early Wednesday that it will allow passengers to get refunds or change their travel dates because of ongoing wildfires. 

The airline cited the emergency order in Maui County and the fact that “non-essential travel is being strongly discouraged.”

“We have a travel waiver in place and will allow you to receive a refund or change travel to a future date without penalty," the airline said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 6:18 PM BST
Kihei in Maui is ‘clear’ and residents can return, officials say
Marlene Lenthang

Kihei, a census-designated area, is “clear” and residents can return home, Maui County said in an update at 6 a.m. local time (12 p.m. ET). 

Officials also said residents on Ohukai Road can return home, adding the fire in that area is “not a threat.”

However, Lahaina officers were evacuating residents in Launiupoko Estates and Punakea Loop. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:56 PM BST
2,000 sheltering at Kahului Airport
Marlene Lenthang

Travel in and out of Hawaii has been disrupted because of wildfires burning on several islands, prompting 2,000 travelers from canceled flights and arrivals to shelter at Kahului Airport in Maui County, the county said just before 5 a.m. local time Wednesday. 

So far Wednesday, there have been 27 delays at the airport and two cancellations, following 45 delays and six cancellations Tuesday, according to FlightAware.com. 

Almost 100 firefighters have been on duty, including 11 from state airport rescue personnel, the county said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:49 PM BST

Video shows flames engulfing storefronts in the Maui town of Lahaina
SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:44 PM BST
Maui County plagued by power outages

Denise Chow

More than 14,000 power outages have been reported across Maui County, according to poweroutage.us, a site that collects and monitors live data from utilities across the United States.

Hawaiian Electric, the largest supplier of electricity in the state, said Tuesday that crews are working on extensive repairs to downed power lines in West Maui and Upcountry, and warned customers to be prepared for extended outages.

"With the sustained high wind weather, we are seeing additional impacts to our electrical infrastructure at the same time the crews are making repairs so we are asking customers to please prepare for possible extended outages into the night,” spokesperson Shayna Decker said in a statement Tuesday.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:24 PM BST
Fires in Hawaii unlike other U.S. wildfires
Associated Press

Fires in Hawaii are unlike many of those burning in the U.S. West. They tend to break out in large grasslands on the dry sides of the islands and are generally much smaller than mainland fires.

Fires were rare in Hawaii and on other tropical islands before humans arrived, and native ecosystems evolved without them. This means great environmental damage can occur when fires erupt. For example, fires remove vegetation. When a fire is followed by heavy rainfall, the rain can carry loose soil into the ocean, where it can smother coral reefs.

A major fire in the Big Island in 2021 burned homes and forced thousands to evacuate.

The island of Oahu, where Honolulu is located, also was dealing with power outages, downed power lines and traffic problems, said Adam Weintraub, communication director for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 5:00 PM BST
Hawaii under red flag warning
Marlene Lenthang

All the Hawaiian islands are under a red flag warning through 6 p.m. local time Wednesday. 

A red flag warning is an alert issued by the weather service when a combination of very low humidity, warm temperatures and strong winds are expected to combine to cause fires to spread rapidly. The warning serves as a signal to officials and fire managers to be on the lookout for potential wildfires in the area.

The warning is for leeward areas, meaning land that faces away from the wind usually sheltered by hills and mountains, due to strong winds and low humidity, the agency in Honolulu said in a morning advisory. 

“Very dry fuels combined with strong and gusty easterly winds and low humidities will produce critical fire weather conditions through the afternoon hours,” the advisory said. 

East winds of 20 to 35 mph with gusts from 40 to 50 mph are forecast, along with humidity levels at 40-45% through the afternoon.

“Any fires that develops will likely spread rapidly. Outdoor burning is not recommended,” the agency warned. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 4:13 PM BST
Schools closed in Maui on Wednesday
Marlene Lenthang

Schools were shuttered Wednesday due to spreading brush fires and evacuations in Maui. 

Closures in West Maui: Princess Nahi‘ena‘ena Elementary, King Kamehameha III Elementary, Lahaina Intermediate, Lahainaluna High.

Closures in South Maui: Kihei Elementary, Lokelani Intermediate, Kamali‘i Elementary and Kūlanihāko‘i High.

In Upcountry Maui, King Kekaulike High was closed and in Central Maui, Maui High was being used as an evacuation shelter. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:50 PM BST
Coast Guard rescues 12 Hawaii residents who fled into water
Marlene Lenthang

Twelve people were rescued overnight Tuesday by the Coast Guard after entering the ocean to escape blazes burning in West Maui, a Coast Guard spokesperson said.

All were in stable condition when recovered. 

“The Coast Guard has been responding to impacted areas where residents are entering the ocean due to smoke and fire conditions,” Maui County said in a public notice. “Individuals were transported by the Coast Guard to safe areas.”

The U.S. Coast Guard tweeted that a dozen people were rescued near Lahaina by a 45-foot response boat from the Coast Guard’s Maui Station.

"The USCG continues the joint response with federal and state partners while the USCG Cutter Kimball is en route to Maui to enhance efforts," it said.

Wildfires continue to burn across Big Island and Maui on Wednesday.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:44 PM BST
Winds strengthened by hurricane helped fuel devastating fires

Denise Chow

Strong winds driven by Dora, which has been churning over the central Pacific Ocean and moving west, helped whip up wildfires that spread quickly in Hawaii.

The weather service Tuesday warned that 45 mph winds and gusts up to 60 mph could create "high fire danger with rapid spread."


Maui wildfires cause extensive damage to island as residents evacuate
The winds strengthened by the hurricane exacerbated multiple fires in Maui and hampered efforts to put the blazes out, the Associated Press reported. Helicopter crews were unable to dump water on the fires to help contain the spread, and downed trees and power lines blocked some road access.

Dora was passing more than 500 miles south of Hawaii, and was not expected to make landfall on the island chain. The Category 4 storm is not thought to be directly responsible for the wildfires, but rather added to dry and windy conditions that heighten the risk of such blazes.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:30 PM BST
Hundreds evacuated, homes destroyed
Marlene Lenthang

In the Kula area of Maui, 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, Maui Mayor Richard Bissen said Tuesday.

He said at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1,100 acres.

He noted that fierce winds were the biggest challenge in confronting the blazes, as the wind conditions are unsafe for helicopters to do water drops.

Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said that about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the island were evacuated Tuesday. He said one roof had caught fire.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:20 PM BST
Where the blazes are
Marlene Lenthang

Two brush fires were burning Tuesday in the Big Island in North and South Kohala, Hawai’i County officials said. 

“A mandatory evacuation was called for in the Kohala Ranch area, and 2 residents have taken shelter at Hisaoka Gymnasium,” the county said in a public notice Tuesday.

Evacuation shelters were opened at Hisaoka Gym in Kapaʻau and the Waimea Community Center in Waimea, officials said.

Wildfires are also burning in Maui, with the biggest blaze believed to be in Lahaina.

An emergency proclamation was issued Tuesday by Lt. Gov Sylvia Luke, activating the Hawaii National Guard. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:09 PM BST
Evacuations in Big Island and Maui
Marlene Lenthang

Evacuations are underway in Big Island and Maui amid wildfires that are raging across the area, fueled by winds associated with Dora. 

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:09 PM BST
No fatalities reported in wildfire
Associated Press

Officials were not aware of any deaths and knew of only one injury, a firefighter who was in stable condition at a hospital after experiencing smoke inhalation, Maui County spokesperson Mahina Martin said in a phone interview early Wednesday.

There’s no count available for the number of structures affected by the fires or the number of people affected by evacuations, but she said there are four shelters open, with more than 1,000 people at the largest.

“This is so unprecedented,” she said, noting that multiple districts were affected. An emergency in the night is terrifying, she said, and the darkness makes it hard to gauge the extent of the damage.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:09 PM BST
Bus routes suspended because of fires
Marlene Lenthang

Several transportation services were disrupted Wednesday due to wildfires burning in Maui. 

The Lahaina Islander Route #20, Lahaina Villager Route #23, Kaanapali Islander Route #25, and West Maui Islander Route #28 were suspended until further notice, the county said in a public notice.

Maui Bus ADA Paratransit Service and MEO Human Service Transportation trips to and from and within West Maui were also suspended. 

“All Maui Bus Commuter Services will be suspended until further notice,” the county said.

SHARE THIS -
5d ago / 3:09 PM BST
911 service down in Maui’s west side
Marlene Lenthang

First responders faced a hurdle in grappling with wildfires burning in Maui as 911 service went down early Wednesday.

Maui County said on social media the service was unavailable in the island’s west side at 12 a.m. local time (6 a.m. ET).

Locals are urged to call the Lahaina Police Department directly in case of an emergency.






SKIP NAVIGATION
logo
WATCHLIVE

logo
Share Article via Facebook
Share Article via Twitter
Share Article via LinkedIn
Share Article via Email
CLIMATE
At least 6 killed as Maui wildfires spread, evacuations across Hawaii continue
PUBLISHED WED, AUG 9 202311:23 AM EDTUPDATED WED, AUG 9 20236:21 PM EDT
thumbnail
Ashley Capoot
@ASHLEYCAPOOT
WATCH LIVE
KEY POINTS
At least six people have died after wildfires burned across Hawaii after strong winds from Hurricane Dora and dry conditions ignited blazes.
Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation that authorized the Hawaii National Guard to aid authorities with disaster relief.
Luke stepped in for Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, but Green has been “fully briefed” on the situation, according to a release.
Wildfires burn historic Maui town of Lahaina, prompt evacuations across HawaiiWATCH NOW
VIDEO01:00
Wildfires burn historic Maui town of Lahaina, prompt evacuations across Hawaii
At least six people have died in wildfires in Maui, after strong winds from Hurricane Dora and dry conditions ignited blazes and prompted evacuations across Hawaii, officials said Wednesday. Injuries have been reported, but officials did not provide a number.

The Coast Guard rescued people from the ocean near Lahaina, Maui, as they went into the water to escape a fast-moving fire, NBC News reported, and the historic downtown area surrounding Front Street was partly destroyed, according to Hawaii News Now and other reports.

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation Tuesday that said the fires had burned “hundreds” of acres and forced a number of schools and roads to close. Luke authorized the Hawaii National Guard to aid authorities with disaster relief.

Smoke billows near Lahaina as wildfires driven by high winds destroy a large part of the historic town of Lahaina, in Kahului, Hawaii, U.S. August 9, 2023.
Smoke billows near Lahaina as wildfires driven by high winds destroy a large part of the historic town of Lahaina, in Kahului, Hawaii, U.S. August 9, 2023.
Dustin Johnson | Via Reuters
Luke stepped in for Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, but Green has been “fully briefed” on the situation, according to a release. Green will return to Hawaii on Aug. 15.

The emergency proclamation said evacuations were underway in the Kohala Ranch, Kula, and Lahaina areas, as the fires threaten to affect the health and welfare of “a substantial number of persons.” The disaster emergency relief period will continue through at least Aug. 15, the document said.

“Lieutenant Governor Luke has my full support,” Green said in a release. “My thoughts are with the residents and businesses affected by Hurricane Dora.”

A wildfire burns on the island of Maui near an intersection in Lahaina, Hawaii, U.S. August 9, 2023.  Zeke Kalua/County of Maui/Handout via REUTERS  NO RESALES. NO ARCHIVES. THIS IMAGE HAS BEEN SUPPLIED BY A THIRD PARTY.
A wildfire burns on the island of Maui near an intersection in Lahaina, Hawaii, August 9, 2023.
Zeke Kalua | County Of Maui | via Reuters
The emergency proclamation said evacuations were underway in the Kohala Ranch, Kula, and Lahaina areas, as the fires threaten to affect the health and welfare of “a substantial number of persons.” The disaster emergency relief period will continue through at least Aug. 15, the document said.

“Lieutenant Governor Luke has my full support,” Green said in a release. “My thoughts are with the residents and businesses affected by Hurricane Dora.”

Hurricane Dora was not expected to make landfall in Hawaii and remained hundreds of miles south of the islands Wednesday, according to the National Hurricane Center. But the storm contributed to strong winds that downed a number of trees and powerlines.

The Honolulu National Weather Service shared a post on X, formerly known as Twitter, on Tuesday night telling residents to prepare for winds of 30 to 40 miles per hour and gusts up to 60 miles per hour.

“Secure property, expected outages & difficult travel,” the agency wrote.

The strong winds stalled firefighters and prevented helicopters from successfully dumping water onto the flames, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin told the Associated Press on Tuesday.

The American Red Cross posted Wednesday on X that a number of shelters are open across the state to help those who have been affected by the fires and winds.

Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui, Hawaii, as a fire burns in Maui's upcountry region on Tuesday, Aug. 8. 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions.
Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui, Hawaii, as a fire burns in Maui’s upcountry region on Tuesday, Aug. 8. 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions.
Matthew Thayer | The Maui News | AP
Closing Bell: Overtime





'Apocalyptic': People scramble for safety as Hawaii wildfires rage; at least 36 dead in Maui: Updates
N'dea Yancey-Bragg
Jorge L. Ortiz
Kathleen Wong
USA TODAY







Editor's note: This file is based on the news of the Hawaii wildfires on Wednesday, Aug. 9. For the latest news and updates on the Maui fire and the ongoing evacuations, check out our live updates file for Thursday, Aug. 10.

MAUI, Hawaii − Wind-whipped wildfires in Hawaii forced hundreds of evacuations Wednesday, overwhelmed hospitals and even sent some residents fleeing into the ocean to escape the flames as parts of the popular tourist destination turned into a raging inferno in a matter of hours.

At least 36 people have died in the Lahaina fire in Hawaii, Maui County wrote in a statement posted to the county website Wednesday evening. Officials said earlier that 271 structures were damaged or destroyed and dozens of people injured.

Entire blocks of homes and businesses went up in smoke in historic Lahaina Town in Maui, where blazes fueled by wind from a passing hurricane were concentrated. In addition, three wildfires were burning on the Big Island, though two of them were at least 60% contained.

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said residents had been preparing for Hurricane Dora, which skirted south of the islands, and had no reason to expect the quickly developing blazes.

“We expect rain, sometimes we expect floods,'' she said. "We never anticipated in this date that a hurricane which did not make impact on our islands would cause these type of wildfires.''

President Joe Biden said in a statement he has ordered “all available Federal assets” to help combat the wildfires, including Black Hawk helicopters provided by the Marines.


County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin told USA TODAY the fires are affecting two areas of the island: Lahaina, a residential and tourist area with a commercial district in West Maui, and Kula, a residential area in the inland, mountainous upcountry region.

Officials said 2,000 travelers sheltered at Maui's Kahului Airport, and another 4,000 visitors wanted to leave the island. The Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu was being prepared to accommodate up to 4,000 people displaced by the wildfires.

Locals and visitors scrambled to get information and reach loved ones amid power blackouts and downed cellular and 911 service as well as phone lines in different parts of the islands.

Tiare Lawrence, who grew up in Lahaina, was trying to get in touch with her siblings while providing refuge at her home for 14 cousins and uncles who fled the heat, smoke and flames in Lahaina.

“It was apocalyptic from what they explained,” she said.

Maui county officials said multiple structures have burned and multiple evacuation orders are in place as emergency crews battle brush and structure fires. "It's been an unprecedented incident striking large areas of our island, and it has been pretty much all hands on deck," Martin said.

Residents and tourists seek shelter at Maui High School Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023, in Kahului. A large fire consumed the town of Lahaina.
Tourists turning around and leaving right after arriving
The sky over west Maui is hazy with smoke from the devastating wildfires still burning on the island, which continue to displace thousands.

On Wednesday afternoon, traffic was at a complete standstill on Honoapiilani Highway, the main road to access Lahaina, as it remains closed. Cars packed with people are parked along the side of the road waiting to return to their hotels or homes, but no time or date has been given yet.

On Tuesday night, more than 4,000 people − including residents and tourists from two hotels − evacuated to emergency shelters set up by the American Red Cross. On Wednesday, the organization said it was flying in additional volunteers and staff from the mainland to assist with the aftermath of the fires and get people safely to Oahu.Tourists arriving at Kahului Airport are turning around and trying to leave Maui. Alexis and Hector Palomar had their trip planned since May and landed on Wednesday morning.

“We didn’t realize it was happening until we were on our way to the airport. We didn’t think it was that bad until we got here,” Hector Palomar said.

They immediately changed plans and booked a flight to Kauai, departing just three hours after they arrived on Maui.“Thankfully we’re able to get out,” he said. “I just don’t want to take resources from the locals since it’s an island.”

− Kathleen Wong

'Everything is gone': Resident feels lucky, mournful after Lahaina escape
Lahaina resident Jordan Saribay knew how fortunate he and his family were to escape the flames around them alive, having merely lost items that could be replaced.

Saribay had seen homes burst into flames “as tall as the buildings because they were engulfing them,’’ debris turn into dangerous projectiles as people whose cars had run out of gas trying to flee while carrying their prized possessions.

“Everything is gone, every single one of our family homes,’’ Saribay said. “The entire Lahaina Town and the entire subdivision of Lahaina – gone.’’

And much faster than anyone could have imagined. In a few hours, the wind-driven blaze tore through popular Front Street and decimated a town center that traced its roots to the 1700s and was on the National Register of Historic Places.

Getting out of the danger zone made for a surreal journey of trying to find an unclogged escape route amid blistering heat that caused another car to explode, injuring a woman inside it.

“While driving through the neighborhood, it looked like a war zone,’’ Saribay said. “Houses throughout that neighborhood were already on fire. I’m driving through the thickest black smoke, and I don’t know what’s on the other side or what’s in front of me.’’

When he made it out, Saribay felt a pang of emotion seeing Lahaina on his rear-view mirror, wondering what would be left to go back to. “Just praying that a miracle happens,’’ he said.

− Ashley Lewis

Governor has contacted White House, says 'loss of life is expected'
Gov. Josh Green said in a statement Wednesday that he expects to request a Presidential Disaster Declaration from the White House in the next 36 to 48 hours once officials have a better understanding of the scope of the damage.

Green was planning to be out of state for personal travel until next week but is expected to return Wednesday night to address the crisis. He said while the "heroic efforts" of first responders have prevented many causalities, "some loss of life is expected."

“Our state appreciates the incredible outpouring of concern and prayers from the mainland. We won’t forget the aloha you have already begun to share with us,” Green said.

Lifelong Maui resident had 'never seen anything like this'
Kyle Ellison, born and raised in Maui, returned to his Kula home Wednesday morning and started stomping out flames on the property.

The previous morning, he heard trees fall down into the gulch behind his house and, when a popping sound went off, he figured it was coming from an electrical transformer.

"A minute later, I ask my wife if the internet is out and if she can smell smoke." Ellison said. "I've lived here my whole life and I've never seen anything like this. I have friends in Lahaina who have lost everything."

Ellison and his family made it out with one truck full of belongings. Their house is still standing but their neighbors' is not. His wife and children went to the houses of three different friends to stay the night but kept having to move as evacuations spread.

"I think there are going to be a lot of people hurting,'' he said. "We already have a housing crisis out here and we lost so many more homes.''

− Kathleen Wong

Maui wildfire map: A look at how Hurricane Dora and low humidity are fueling Hawaii fires

Hawaii National Guard activated
Luke and Bissen have issued emergency proclamations in response to the fire. The Hawaii National Guard has been activated and is assisting the Maui Police Department at traffic control points, according to the Hawaii adjutant general.

The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing 500 miles south of the island chain, and a very strong high pressure north of the state produced powerful, damaging winds through the overnight hours.

"Very dry fuels combined with strong and gusty easterly winds and low humidities will produce critical fire weather conditions through the afternoon hours," the weather service said in a red flag warning for leeward areas issued Wednesday.

'Chaos' trying to find shelter as people left with few possessions
People in Lahaina described frantically trying to get to relative safety in one of the nearby emergency shelters. But they weren’t told by anyone where to go – just that they had to leave.

Throughout the night, people were driving aimlessly and following other cars, just trying to head north, as police and firefighters dealt with growing flames. 

The War Memorial Gymnasium in Wailuku opened to evacuees this morning. There is no capacity limit to how many people can stay there. The community has set up cots and are giving away clothing, food and pillows to evacuees. A medical team is checking for burns and smoke inhalation, and to aid anyone with existing conditions without access to medication. 

Mauro Farinelli and his wife Judit arrived at the shelter around noon. They have lived right on Front Street in Lahaina for four years and described their evacuation as “chaos.”

“No one told us we had to leave, it was getting bad and we had to leave with the clothes on our back,” he said. The couple went to the boat ramp where they were told they could jump into the ocean “if things got bad.” Farinelli said he can’t return home until the electric wires are assessed in Lahaina.

“Nobody thinks it can happen to them,” he said. “Where I lived, it was like there’s no way a fire can get here because I’m not close to vegetation but the wind was so strong, it was like a blow torch."

− Kathleen Wong

Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui as a fire burns on  Aug. 8. 2023.
'We just lost a large part of our heritage,' official says
While it’s still difficult to assess the damage, state Sen. Gilbert Keith-Agaran cited various landmarks that have reportedly been lost – historic businesses and buildings, temples and cemeteries where royal figures were buried. 

“It’s a real loss. Hawaii and Maui have tried really hard to preserve and protect those places for many, many years … not for the sake of tourism but because it’s part of our cultural heritage,” said Keith-Agaran, whose district includes Kahului in central Maui. Lahaina, where the largest fires are concentrated, was once the capital of the Hawaiian kingdom. 

“We just lost a large part of our heritage,” he said.  

Brush and wildfires are not unheard of in Hawaii’s leeward regions during the dry season. In 2018, Maui suffered a massive brush fire on the same side of the island, primarily on the slopes. “This is so much worse,” Keith-Agaran said, pointing to the scope of the current blaze. 

“No matter how much you prepare, you’re not going to be ready for something that moves as quickly and as big as this,” he said. “I don’t think we had enough equipment or people to be fighting fires upcountry, small fires in central Maui and then this huge fire on the west side.”

− Alia Wong

Burn victims sent to other islands
Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for the air-ambulance company Hawaii Life Flight. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit in Honolulu, he said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, said Bailey, who was not aware of any deaths.

Luke told CNN Maui's hospitals are overwhelmed with burn patients and people suffering from smoke inhalation and it's been difficult to transport people needing care to other facilities.

“We are already in communication with other hospital systems about relieving the burden – the reality is that we need to fly people out of Maui to give them burn support because Maui hospital cannot do extensive burn treatment,” Luke said. “In addition to dealing with disaster, we're dealing with major transportation issues as well.”

Resident of nearby island searching for family in Maui
Leomana Turalde's mother called him on the phone crying Wednesday morning, saying she never went to sleep on Tuesday night in Maui amid the massive fires.

Turalde said he has several “aunties” who live on Maui, two blocks away from Lahaina’s popular Front Street. Wednesday morning, one of the women went missing, he told USA TODAY. It is impossible to get in touch with some people because cellphone infrastructure on Maui burned down, he said.

“Lahaina Town is now burnt down to ashes,'' said Turalde, 36, who runs a sunscreen company. "Most of the families on Maui, if you never made contact with your family before sunset last night, you’re still trying to figure out where they are.”

He said he is boarding a plane on Wednesday to Maui from where he lives on the island of Hawaii to help family members search for missing relatives near their homestead property, which he said burned down.

“I’m going to go to the first place that everybody would go to when they’re in trouble, and that’s the house, even though the house isn’t there,” he said. “Home is usually the first place you should start if people are missing.”

− Claire Thornton

All roads to historic Lahaina closed as Front Street burns
All roads into Lahaina, a town of roughly 13,000, and West Maui have been closed to public use, except for emergency services, county officials said Wednesday. Photos shared by the county overnight showed a line of flames blazing across an intersection in Lahaina and flames leaping above buildings in the town, whose historic district is on the National Register of Historic Places.

"Do NOT go to Lahaina town," officials warned.

Green said much of the area "has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced."

Front Street business owner Alan Dickar told CBS News buildings on both sides of the street in the popular tourist area were engulfed in flames. Dickar said it appeared the fire department was overwhelmed.

"Maui can't handle this," Dickar said. "A lot of people just lost their jobs because a lot of businesses burned. A lot of people lost their homes. ... This is going to be devastating for Maui."

Lahaina’s historic Waiola Church and the neighboring Lahaina Hongwanji Mission temple were among the structures that caught fire Wednesday, the Maui News reported. The church was established in 1823, and its graveyard, believed to be the first Christian cemetery in Hawaii, is the final resting place for early members of the royal family of the Kingdom of Hawaii, according to its website.

Uncertainty for many residents
Beatrice Hoopai drove for hours in the middle of the night trying to find shelter before ending up at the Warm Memorial Gymnasium. She, her husband, disabled son and two infants were living at Ka Hale A Ke Ola (KHAKO), which is low-income housing, in Lahaina waiting to be told to evacuate as the fires were approaching. A friend told Hoopai a nearby transformer caught on fire and to leave as soon as possible.

“We packed up what we could and left,” she said. “KHAKO didn’t turn on their evacuation, we didn’t know we was going to be evacuated. Nobody told us nothing.” 

The family got in Hoopai’s car and started driving but kept going around in circles as roads were closed. Branches were catching on fire and tin roofs blew past the car, she said. “You could see black smoke, the flames, everything was falling down,” she said. “If you looked back in the mirror, everything was burning.” The ocean was black and eerie.

Hoopai has lived on Maui for her entire life and just moved to Lahaina in May. “This is the first time I’ve ever seen anything like this.” Tourists, she said, can lose their luggage but still return back to their homes. But local residents lose their homes.

She’s worried about what’s next now that the shelter is gone but she’s thankful for her family’s safety.

“You can lose everything but you cannot replace a life," she said. 

− Kathleen Wong

Maui fires map
Track the latest wildfire and red flag warnings here with data that is updated based on input from several incident and intelligence sources.

Nearly 2,000 people stuck at Maui airport
Martin said the Kahului Airport in Maui has more than 2,000 visitors who have either canceled flights or had nowhere to go. The Hawaii Department of Transportation said Wednesday that about 1,800 people sheltered in place overnight in the airport with many highways on the island's west site still closed.

"HDOT worked with airlines/TSA to shelter passengers for safety's sake as wildfires continue to burn in Lahaina and upcountry," officials said on X, formerly Twitter.

Nearly 100 firefighters have been on duty, including 11 from state airport rescue personnel, county officials said.

Ten public schools in Maui were closed Wednesday, including one that is being used as an evacuation shelter, according to the Hawaii Department of Education.

Student boarders at Lahainaluna High School were moved Tuesday evening to Maui High School, which was being used as a shelter for evacuees to be picked up by family members or emergency contacts, officials said. The Lahainaluna campus remained closed Wednesday because of a lack of power, wind damage and brush fire evacuations.

As the brush fire spread to Kihei, officials announced Tuesday that four public schools in South Maui would be closed in addition to schools in West, Upcountry and Central Maui.

Homes destroyed; residents evacuated
The Coast Guard has been responding to areas where residents are "entering the ocean due to smoke and fire conditions," county officials said. A Coast Guard boat rescued 12 people from the waters off Lahaina, officials said on X, formerly Twitter.

Lawrence told Hawaii News Now people were running for their lives. She said the homes of everyone she knows in Lahaina have been down.

“It’s just so hard. I’m currently Upcountry and just knowing I can’t get a hold of any of my family members. I still don’t know where my little brother is. I don’t know where my stepdad is,” she said.

In Kula, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1,100 acres, Bissen told The Associated Press. About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, he said.

The Red Cross has opened several emergency shelters for residents. Martin said one evacuation center alone had more than 1,200 people.

"I am absolutely certain they are very anxious at our evacuation centers," she said.

Local resident could tell something was brewing
Alice Carillo lives about five miles from the fire that erupted in Kula, in a hilly, bucolic region of Maui known as upcountry. 

The 79-year-old woke up in the middle of the night Tuesday to the smell of something burning. She opened the door of her Makawao plantation home, where she’s lived for more than half a century, and “it was like fog out there, so covered with smoke.” She could see a fire above the Kula shopping center. 

10 schools closed, including one converted to evacuation shelter
Conditions had been especially windy in the days leading up to the blaze, in part because of Hurricane Dora moving south of the island. Carillo could sense something was brewing as the gusts picked up. Now, as she looks out at the mountain, the sky is clear.

“You wouldn’t have even known there was a fire,” she said.

− Alia Wong

Wildfire smoke map:See where fires are burning in Hawaii and across the US

Thousands without power; 911 service no longer available in West Maui
More than 14,000 customers in Maui County were without power, according to Poweroutage.us. County officials advised residents to stay at least 30 feet from downed power lines, which at one point restricted travel along parts of Honoapiilani Highway. Part of the highway was reopened Tuesday evening to allow access in and out of Lahaina, but motorists were told to expect traffic to move slowly through the bypass.

In West Maui, 911 service is no longer available. Martin said it's been "very difficult" to manage evacuation orders in Lahaina because the area does not have cell service and only landlines are functioning.

The island of Oahu, where Honolulu is located, also was dealing with power outages, downed power lines and traffic problems, said Adam Weintraub, communication director for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.

Strong winds are fueling the flames
In Kula, winds were recorded at 80 mph, "which greatly affected the speed and the movement of the fire," Martin said.

Because of the wind gusts, helicopters weren’t able to dump water on the fires from the sky – or gauge more precise fire sizes – and firefighters were encountering roads blocked by downed trees and power lines as they worked the inland fires, Martin previously told the Associated Press.

A high wind warning and red flag warning for dangerous fire weather issued by the National Weather Service in Honolulu are expected to remain in effect through Wednesday.

Maui fire officials warned that erratic wind, challenging terrain, steep slopes and dropping humidity combined with the direction and the location of the fire have made it difficult to predict its path and speed. The wind can also sends fire embers up and ignite sparks downwind, creating fires far from their source, officials said.

“The fire can be a mile or more from your house, but in a minute or two, it can be at your house,” said Fire Assistant Chief Jeff Giesea. “Burning airborne materials can light fires a great distance away from the main body of fire.”

Fires also burning on the Big Island
Hawaii County officials said Tuesday that they were monitoring two brush fires burning in North and South Kohala. The fires prompted evacuations and power outages in the area.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency on Tuesday approved the state's request for a disaster declaration to provide assistance with "the wind-whipped Kohala Ranch wildfire on the Big Island," according to a news release from the governor's office.

The fire, which began early Tuesday, threatened about 200 homes near the rural community of Kohala Ranch, a volunteer fire department, local electrical transmission lines and an AT&T cellular communications tower in the area, officials said The fire was uncontained and had burned more than 600 acres of land when the request for federal assistance was made.

The release said firefighters battling that fire and the two other uncontrolled fires on the Big Island and Maui "have been hampered by the winds, which made it impossible to provide aircraft support for their efforts to contain the flames."

“We’re trying to protect homes in the community,” Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth said of evacuating about 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the island. As of Tuesday, the roof of one house caught on fire, he said.

Contributing: The Associated Press



ABC News
LOG IN

Stream on
hulu
'I was trapped': Maui fire survivors speak out as emergency declared
An emergency proclamation was extended for all Hawaii counties on Wednesday.

ByKevin Shalvey, Victoria Arancio, Nadine El-Bawab, Meredith Deliso, and Sasha Pezenik
August 9, 2023, 6:35 PM





2:01
In this image obtained from the County of Maui in Hawaii, shows a wildfire in Lahaina, on Aug. 9, 2023. Hawaii wildfires fanned by winds from Hurricane Dora forced evacuations late on Aug. 8.
Zeke Kalua/County of Maui /AFP via Getty Images
Hawaii residents recounted fleeing from deadly, ferocious wildfires, which have prompted an emergency proclamation from the acting governor.

"We started smelling the smoke, and that's when we knew we had trouble," Maui resident Steve Scott ABC News' Gio Benitez on Wednesday. "It came, and it came quick."

The wildfires are spreading rapidly in very dry conditions combined with powerful trade winds being squeezed across Hawaii. The winds are being caused by a strong high pressure system to the north and a strong low pressure system -- Hurricane Dora -- well to the south.

Scott said they had winds "like we've never had before." He said he tried to fight the fire with a hose before managing to flee.

"I was trapped," he said. "We had to run to the harbor."

PHOTO: In this image obtained from the County of Maui in Hawaii, shows a wildfire in Lahaina, on Aug. 9, 2023. Hawaii wildfires fanned by winds from Hurricane Dora forced evacuations late on Aug. 8.
In this image obtained from the County of Maui in Hawaii, shows a wildfire in Lahaina, on Aug. 9, 2023. Hawaii wildfires fanned by winds from Hurricane Dora forced evacuations late on Aug. 8.
Zeke Kalua/County of Maui /AFP via Getty Images
Maui resident Malika Dudley described to ABC News Live on Wednesday her experience evacuating from the raging wildfires with her two children in the middle of the night.

"We were in the very first evacuation at 1 a.m. I started to smell smoke in my home, and I woke my husband up and he said, 'Oh, don't worry about it.' At 1:30, I thought, 'No, something's on fire in our house.'"

Eventually, they got a call from their neighbor and the fire was right above their property.

"We got a call from our neighbor who said, 'Get out of your house.' And we looked out the window and there was a red glow outside of our window," she said. "The fire was right above our property."

Currently in Haliimaile, which is on the slopes of Haleakalā, Dudley can still see the fire from the mountain growing and spreading.

MORE: Maui wildfires live updates: At least 6 dead as residents scramble to evacuate
Scott said the loss is "horrible," especially along Front Street in downtown Lahaina, just as the tourist-driven area started to rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic.

"I don't know if we can recover from this," he said.

Travel discouraged amid emergency
The emergency proclamation was issued for Hawaii's Maui and Hawaii counties on Tuesday by acting Gov. Sylvia Luke. On Wednesday, the emergency proclamation was extended to all counties and non-essential air travel to Maui is now being discouraged. All affected state agencies have also been ordered to assist with the evacuation.

The proclamation encourages visitors in West Maui to depart the island as soon as safe and practicable.

"We are closely following the wildfires caused by the strong winds of Hurricane Dora," Luke said. "The safety of our residents is paramount, and this emergency proclamation will activate the Hawaii National Guard to support emergency responders in the impacted communities."

PHOTO: People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui, on Tuesday, Aug. 9, 2023.
People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui, on Tuesday, Aug. 9, 2023.
Alan Dickar via AP
In addition to Hawaii's National Guard being activated to assist with the fires on Maui and the Big Island, the U.S. Army's 25th Infantry Division will be sending helicopters to help with fire suppression if the winds die down enough, according to Jeff Hickman, a spokesman for Hawaii's Department of Defense.

The National Weather Service has issued a red flag warning for the leeward portions of all Hawaiian Islands.

As of Tuesday night, six fires have burned over 1,800 acres across Maui and the Big Island. Officials said the situation on Maui is very dynamic and fast-moving.

Evacuations were in place Tuesday near two fires burning near Maui -- the Lahaina and Upcountry Maui fires, county officials said.

"Multiple structures have burned and multiple evacuations are in place, as firefighter crews continue battling brush and structure fires in Upcountry and Lahaina areas," officials said in a statement. "In West Maui, fire crews from Napili, Lahaina, Kihei and Wailuku responded to the fast-moving fire, which was fueled by strong winds as Hurricane Dora passed well south of Hawaii."

PHOTO: An aerial view shows a wildfire in Maui County, Hawaii, August 8, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from a social media video.
An aerial view shows a wildfire in Maui County, Hawaii, August 8, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from a social media video.
Justin Woo via Reuters
The U.S. Coast Guard and other agencies are also responding. The Coast Guard's Hawaii Pacific patrol said they successfully rescued 12 people from the waters off Lahaina. The individuals are believed to have jumped into the water to escape the flames, according to the state's EMA.

Travel headaches
There has been no formal closure of Kahului Airport, the main airport on Maui, but there have been disruptions from the smoke. Travelers should check with their airlines for their flight status, according to the EMA.

About 1,800 people sheltered at Kahului Airport overnight, according to the Hawaii Department of Transportation.

PHOTO: A wildfire is seen in Maui, Hawaii, August 8, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from a social media video.
A wildfire is seen in Maui, Hawaii, August 8, 2023 in this screen grab obtained from a social media video.
Dominika Durisova via Reuters
The Hawaii DOT has also urged visitors to leave Maui if possible and not travel to the island. The warnings have caused panic on flights headed to the island.

An Alaska Airlines flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Maui has been delayed for hours and twice allowed passengers off the plane after being told about the conditions on the island.

"I was going to West Maui but don't know if I am anymore because I guess it's on fire and they're evacuating people to Honolulu," Sam Herring, a passenger still on the plane, told ABC News. "I was going to stay with somebody I know on the west side but now I guess I'm going to sleep in the rental car."

A community struggling to cope
Employees at the Nakamura Mortuary in Wailuku, are no stranger to dealing with death -- but usually, it's other people's losses. Now, loss has hit home in an unimaginably painful way. One employee told ABC News she's still in shock and can’t reach family members in Lahaina.

"We're still trying to gather ourselves. It's still very fresh. There's still a lot to be done," she told ABC News over the phone.

Since the Maui wildfires, the calls she says she's received aren't to make funeral arrangements for those lost -- it's people calling to see if she has information on their missing loved ones. She doesn't.

"We really have no answers for them which makes it even harder," she said. "It is getting a little overwhelming, but I know there's more that's coming."

"I don't know how to explain it, we want to do so much, but you can't because you're stuck. This has never happened," she said.

Even as the death toll continues to rise, the employee said she's still coming to terms with what has happened.

"I'm kind of just trying to -- I'm in shock. I just don't want to believe that this happened," she said. "And today it's raining. Where was the rain yesterday? Where was it the day before?"

She says she has relatives who lost their homes -- and family members are still missing, both elderly and teenaged. They were last in Lahaina, and haven't been heard from in 48 hours, she said.

"I am hoping they will be found but it's in the back of my mind, I just don't want to get that call," she said.

The not knowing is hard, too.

"I'm hoping for the best," she said. "I pray this will bring us together to help each other."

Alani Wun is a funeral arranger at Norman's Mortuary. She's lived in Maui all her life.

"This was my childhood playground," she said. "This doesn't ever happen here. ... It's hard to imagine."

Wun says she thinks it's too early for any calls about arrangements for wildfire deaths -- that process will take time, she said.

She says Norman's is "prepared and ready to help" their community when the time comes.

"I am part of the ohana of Lahaina," Wun said.

Another funeral arranger at Norman's, Aloha Puaa, described this as a "devastating moment," adding, "we just ask that everyone pray for the Lahaina family and all of Maui."

ABC News' Luis Martinez, Will Carr, Timmy Truong and Marilyn Heck contributed to this report.



Skip to content
86°
Honolulu, HI
Live
News
Maui Wildfires
BREAKING: Death toll in Lahaina wildfire rises to 96 as recovery operations near one-week mark
‘It was catastrophic’: Residents left devastated as wildfires wreak havoc on Maui

We continue to bring you the latest from Maui, which has changed forever as a result of these devastating fires that have destroyed Lahaina.
By HNN Staff
Published: Aug. 9, 2023 at 10:32 AM GMT+1|Updated: Aug. 9, 2023 at 7:45 PM GMT+1
LAHAINA (HawaiiNewsNow) - As flames from a raging brush fire tore through a historic business district on Maui Tuesday, residents and others on social media described the “devastating” crisis unfolding.

A pilot from Air Maui Helicopters flew over Lahaina Wednesday morning and recalled seeing hundreds of homes burnt down.

Lahaina resident Tiare Lawrence compared the scene to an apocalypse, with people running for their lives.

“It’s just so hard. I’m currently Upcountry and just knowing I can’t get a hold of any of my family members. I still don’t know where my little brother is. I don’t know where my stepdad is,” she said.

“Everyone I know in Lahaina, their homes have been burned down.”

Lawrence’s cousin Dustin Kaleiopu added they had seen smoke near their house around 3:30 p.m. Tuesday, and just a few hours later, the fires took everything.

“Our house was gone. Everything that we’d ever known was gone. Our church, our schools, every single memory we had on this household ... everything was gone in the blink of an eye,” Kaleiopu said.

Front Street business owner Alan Dickar captured video Tuesday afternoon, watching business after business going up in flames.

“That was this afternoon, around probably 4:30 in bright sunshine, blue skies, but you couldn’t tell from that video.”

He said there were no fire trucks at the point.


Strong winds fuel massive wildfires

15:26
FEMA administrator discusses latest on wildfire response
2:19
FULL VIDEO: Oprah explains critical need to get resources to wildfire evacuees
6:52
Tokuda: Providing federal services on 'multiple different levels' critical in response efforts
3:56
Home insurance expert explains how to file a claim amid a disaster
12:45
In the midst of tragedy, help for Maui continues to pour in from across the world
5:07
Death toll in Lahaina wildfire rises to 96 as recovery operations near one-week mark
4:01
HSTAis accepting donations and has compiled a list of fundraising pages for teachers in need
3:09
Death toll in Lahaina rises to 93 as families with missing loved ones are asked for DNA samples
2:29
On Front Street, ‘ground zero’ for Lahaina wildfire, little is still standing
3:33
Death toll in Lahaina rises to 93 as recovery crews search burned-out homes, businesses
4:42
Governor says death toll in Lahaina stands at 89; warns fatalities ‘will continue to rise’
2:29
Governor says death toll in Lahaina stands at 89; warns fatalities ‘will continue to rise’
0:32
‘Indescribable grief’: Loved ones identify family of 4 killed while fleeing Lahaina wildfire
4:07
Red Cross seeks hundreds of volunteers to assist with Maui disaster response
3:29
Dept. of Defense official details Hawaii National Guard’s efforts on Maui
6:20
More than 2,200 structures damaged or destroyed in Lahaina wildfire
1:47
Tiny Molokai makes a ‘huge’ contribution to help their neighbors on Maui
1:28
Maui emergency shelter also a key drop-off point for donations
3:00
Death toll in Lahaina wildfire climbs to 80 as recovery efforts continue
2:16
'We couldn't believe it': West Maui visitors recount evacuation as they cut trips short
“I think the fire department was overwhelmed with other fires nearby,” he said. “And it’s amazing because this is the most important business street on Maui.”

Meanwhile, crews have been scrambling to rescue a number of people who fled into the ocean to escape the fast-moving flames.

Boat Captain Chrissy Lovitt was one of the people who fled into the ocean in an attempt to save her boat. “Every single boat in Lahaina Harbor burned up, it looks like something out of a movie, a war movie.”

“As the fire worked its way down to the engine room it exploded, the water was on fire from the fuel in the water,” said Lovitt.

About 10:50 p.m., the Coast Guard said it had rescued a dozen people from waters off Lahaina.

The full scope of the damage in Lahaina isn’t known, but videos on social media shows a wall of flames descending on Front Street in Lahaina and destroying a number of businesses. One terrifying video posted by fleeing residents shows uncontrolled flames on both sides of their vehicle.

People have described the scene as “chaotic” and “stressful.”

Resident Holly Zackious said her parents returned to their homes in Kula Wednesday after evacuating overnight, and while their home was still intact, neighboring homes were “burnt to the ground.”

“It’s awful the amount of damage that this fire wreaked havoc,” said Zackious. “We’re praying for Lahaina.”

Meanwhile, some groups are working to gather donations to help those impacted by the wildfires. They say donations can be dropped off to Hoomana Barbell in Wailuku starting at 9 a.m.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) regional administrator authorized the use of federal funds on Wednesday to assist the state in combatting the Lahaina fire.

This story will be updated.

Copyright 2023 Hawaii News Now. All rights reserved.

Most Read
Gov. Josh Green said on Saturday that the death toll from the Lahaina wildfire now stands at...
 Death toll in Lahaina rises to 93 as families with missing loved ones are asked for DNA samples
Family of long-time Lahaina residents died after attempting to flee flames near home
 ‘Indescribable grief’: Loved ones identify family of 4 killed while fleeing Lahaina wildfire
Recovery crews continue to work their way through the wreckage of Lahaina town.
 Death toll in Lahaina wildfire rises to 96 as recovery operations near one-week mark
HNN File Image / HPD cruiser lights
Man taken into custody, accused of killing his own brother in Moiliili
The blaze that decimated Lahaina is now the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.
 LATEST: About 5,000 remain without power in West Maui, HECO says
Latest News
There are 300 employees on the ground aiding the response efforts.
FEMA administrator discusses latest on wildfire response
Recovery crews continue to work their way through the wreckage of Lahaina town.
 Death toll in Lahaina wildfire rises to 96 as recovery operations near one-week mark
The blaze that decimated Lahaina is now the deadliest U.S. wildfire in more than a century.
 Maui police suspend placard program after ‘non-essential’ people flood distribution sites
Oprah Winfrey visited a shelter on Maui on Sunday to comfort residents and bring attention to...
 Oprah during visit to Maui shelter: It’s critical that aid gets to evacuees quickly
Media mogul — and part-time Maui resident — Oprah Winfrey visited a Maui emergency shelter...
FULL VIDEO: Oprah explains critical need to get resources to wildfire evacuees


Release Date:
August 9, 2023
OAKLAND, Calif. – The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) regional administrator authorized the use of federal funds on Aug. 9 to assist the state of Hawaii to combat the Lahaina Fire burning in Maui County.

On Aug. 9, the state of Hawaii submitted a request for a Fire Management Assistance Grant (FMAG). At the time of the request, the fire threatened an unknown number of homes in and around Lahaina, with mandatory evacuations for approximately 7,500 people. The fire also threatened local businesses, electrical transmission lines and telecommunications lines in the area.

FMAGs provide federal funding for up to 75 percent of eligible firefighting costs. The Disaster Relief Fund provides allowances for FMAGs through FEMA to assist in fighting fires that threaten to become a greater incident.

Eligible costs covered by FMAGs can include expenses for field camps, equipment use, materials, supplies and mobilization, and demobilization activities attributed to fighting the fire.

For more information on FMAGs, visit fema.gov/assistance/public/fire-management-assistance.




Skip to Main Content_
Search
Search Locations
gps_fixed
Log in | Join
settings
star
Current Weather for Popular 
Cities 
San Francisco, CA warning
67 °FMostly Cloudy
Manhattan, NY warning
85 °FFair
Schiller Park, IL (60176) warning
69 °FThunderstorm
Boston, MA
83 °FMostly Cloudy
Houston, TX warning
101 °FPartly Cloudy
St James's, England, United Kingdom
64 °FMostly Cloudy
News & Blogs
CATEGORY 6™NEWS STORIESINFOGRAPHICSPOSTERS
Deadly Maui Fires Destroy Lahaina Town
Jan Wesner Childs and Jimmy He
Published: August 10, 2023
Sign up for the Morning Brief email newsletter to get weekday updates from The Weather Channel and our meteorologists.

Deadly wildfires left complete devastation in their wake Wednesday on the Hawaii island of Maui.

Hospitals were overwhelmed with patients suffering from burns and smoke inhalation, flames torched buildings in a popular historic district, homes and businesses were flattened and tourists were left stranded.

A​t least six people were confirmed dead.

"We are still in search and rescue mode so I don’t know what will happen to that number,” Maui County Mayor Richard Bisson said in a news conference. “We’ve had many dwellings, businesses, structures that have been burnt, many of them to the ground."

A​t least three people were flown to a burn unit in Honolulu. All were in critical condition, according to a spokesperson there.

Earlier, a​ dozen people were rescued by the Coast Guard after jumping into the ocean to reportedly avoid the flames.

H​ere are our live update as the fires burned Wednesday.

(​6:29 p.m. ET) Helicopters Resume Fighting Fires From The Air
W​ith winds dying down, aerial firefighting efforts are picking up. Three helicopters from the U.S. Army's 25th Infantry Division at Schofield Barracks, near Honolulu, are deploying to Maui to assist.

(​6:20 p.m. ET) Recovery Could Take Years
Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said in this afternoon's news conference that it could take months to assess the full scope of the damage — and that recovery will take years. “This is the entire state coming together to assist our family on Maui,” Luke said.

(​6:12 p.m. ET) What's Next For Maui's Weather
Article image
R​elief from wind is coming, but conditions will remain dry for Lahaina.

"As Hurricane Dora moves westward and away from Hawaii, the winds will gradually decrease over the next few days," weather.com digital meteorologist Jonathan Belles said. "Rain chances in the typically shadowed locations in Hawaii, including Lahaina, will remain low into the weekend."

(​5:53 p.m. ET) American And United Airlines Cancel Flights To Maui
American and United Airlines have canceled all flights to Maui, but both airlines will continue to fly travelers out of Kahului airport, CNN reported.

Southwest Airlines is also offering reduced inter-island flights for $19 out of Maui until Friday. Inter-island pet fares have been reduced to one dollar.

(5​:35 p.m. ET) 'This Is Not A Safe Place To Be'
Maui officials are urging tourists to stay away from the island as wildfires continue to be contained.

"This is not a safe place to be,” said Hawaii Lieutenant Governor Sylvia Luke. “On certain parts of Maui we have shelters that are overrun. We have resources that are being taxed. We are doing whatever we can and the state is providing whatever support that we can to give support to both Maui and to the Big Island."

(​5:12 p.m. ET) 'The businesses, the historic area, burned to the ground. Gone.'
A crew from Air Maui helicopters has gotten a first look from the air at the catastrophic damage in Lahaina. Here’s how pilot Richie Olsten, who has flown over Hawaii for 52 years, described the scene:

“It looked like a war zone, like an area that had just been bombed … And, it's just, I can't even put it in words, what, what we saw. So many people, hundreds of homes burned to the ground. People displaced, the whole Front Street of Lahaina … The businesses, the historic area, burned to the ground. Gone.”

S​ee the video the crew shot here.

(​5:04 p.m. ET) Lahaina Remains Without Power Or Cell Phone Service
Twenty-nine utility poles are down in Lahaina due to strong winds and power has yet to be restored to the area, Mayor Richard Bisson reported.

“Anything that was on the ground that assisted in getting any kind of communication has been burned or partially burned or destroyed,” he said.

There is no estimate on when mobile and cell service will be restored. A fiber-optic cable, which transfers data signals, was damaged by the fire and officials estimate it could take over a month for it to be repaired.

(​4:45 p.m. ET) 3 Maui County Fires Yet To Be Contained
Three fires in Lahaina, Kula and Kihei are still burning in Maui County, Mayor Richard Bisson said in a press conference. The fire in Kula has burned roughly 1,100 acres so far.

Bisson also reported 13 evacuations across different neighborhoods and towns, 16 road closures and five opened emergency shelters.

"Our main focus right now is to save lives and to preserve lives," said Bisson. “Our secondary [focus] is to save as much property as possible.”

(​4:06 p.m. ET) Hawaii Officials Holding News Conference
A​ news conference has just started. “It is really just with sadness and heartache that we are at this press conference,” Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke said on a live feed.

(​3:39 p.m. ET) Maui Issues Island-Wide Water Conservation Request
The Department Of Water Supply is advising consumers to limit their water use to reduce demand and extend existing supplies.

“The Water Department is working diligently to ensure our resources are used as efficiently as possible and we need the community to do their part,” the agency said in a statement.

Water conservation efforts include refraining from washing cars as well as not hosing down sidewalks and driveways or watering lawns.

(​3:33 p.m. ET) Why Wildfire Smoke Is So Dangerous
Wildfire smoke is made up mainly of microscopic particulate matter 30 times smaller than the diameter of a strand of hair. The particles include acids, chemicals, metals, soil and dust. When inhaled, they can go deep inside the lungs and bloodstream.

Research has shown smoke from wildfires is 10 times more hazardous to humans than similar pollution from other sources. The CDC says breathing in wildfire smoke can cause coughing, shortness of breath, increased heart rate and other immediate effects, even in healthy people.

H​ere are some ways to avoid the danger.

(​3:04 p.m. ET) Governor: 'Some Loss Of Life Is Expected'
In a new update, Hawaii Gov. Josh Green said: "We have suffered a terrible disaster ... Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced ... Heroic efforts by first responders have prevented many casualties from occurring, but some loss of life is expected."

(​2:45 p.m. ET) Here's Where Drought Is Helping Make Hawaii Fires Worse
Article image
Portions of Maui are in a moderate to severe drought, and dry fuels and low humidity are playing a role in the fire danger. A(​2:33 p.m. ET) Video Shows Flames Burning Lahaina Historic District

(​2:33 p.m. ET) Video Shows Flames Burning Lahaina Historic District
W​itnesses watched in horror as flames engulfed Front Street in downtown Lahaina. Buildings there date back to 1834. You can watch the video here.

(​2:12 p.m. ET) Hawaiian Airlines Offers Travel Waivers
Hawaiian Airlines tweeted that they will allow travelers to refund or change their flight to a different date without penalty. Six percent of the airline’s flights have been delayed and two flights have been canceled so far on Wednesday, according to FlightAware.com.

Four percent of flights into Kahului Airport (OGG) have been canceled and 10 percent have been delayed. About 1,800 people took shelter at the airport Tuesday night after many west side highways were closed, Hawaii News Now reported.

(​1:39 p.m. ET) High Wind Warning Canceled
From weather.com senior meteorologist Chris Dolce: Winds have dropped below high wind warning criteria from the National Weather Service, so that's why the warning was dropped. But, a red flag warning remains in effect until 6 p.m. HST since gusty winds and low humidity are still in play the rest of the day, keeping a heightened fire danger in place. Winds will continue to slacken tonight and Thursday as the pressure gradient between distant Hurricane Dora and high pressure to the north relaxes.

(​1:29 p.m. ET) 'Like Being In A Movie You Don't Want To Be In'
Cousins Jasmine McIntyre and Melissa McIntyre from Connecticut are on a girls trip to Maui. They fled their vacation rental Tuesday afternoon and ended up sleeping in their car in the parking lot of an evacuation shelter at Maui High School.

“It’s like being in a movie you don’t want to be in," Jasmine McIntyre said.

Now they're trying to figure out what to do next.

“The airport is inundated with people right now trying to do the same thing," Melissa McIntyre said.

Hear more of their story here.

(​1:21 p.m. ET) At Least One Person In Critical Condition
At least one of the burn patients flown to the island of Oahu is in critical condition, Honolulu Emergency Services Department spokesperson Shayne Enright told the AP. The patient, a woman in her 60s, is in the burn unit at Honolulu hospital.

(​1:17 p.m. ET) Evacuation Sites Relocated
The Lahaina Civic Center evacuation site has been moved to Maui Preparatory Academy in Napili-Honokowai to distance evacuees from Lahaina Town, Maui County officials reported in their latest press release. As a precaution, residents at the Kihei Community Center Evacuation Site have also been relocated to Maui High School in Kahului. Officials say that at least 1,200 have taken shelter in the school.

Other emergency shelters include Mayor Hannibal Tavares Community Center, War Memorial Gym and Kahului Airport. Evacuees are reminded that emergency shelters do not provide bedding, toiletries or personal care products. Pet owners will need to ensure their animals are properly restrained.

(​12:44 p.m. ET) At Least Three Burn Victims Are Being Treated On Oahu
Emergency service officials said in a morning update that they are treating three burn victims who have been sent from Maui to the island of Oahu where Honolulu is located, KHON-TV reports. They expect more victims to be flown off the island.

(​12:36 p.m. ET) Fate Of Lahaina's Famous Banyan Tree Unknown
T​here are fears that a massive banyan tree popular with visitors and honeymooners in Lahaina has been lost to the flames. The sprawling tree is the size of an entire city block along the town's Front Street and is more than 60 feet tall, according to the Hawaii Tourism Authority. It was brought over from India and planted in 1873.

(​12:23 p.m. ET) Fires Spotted On Satellite
Article image
Hot spots from the destructive wildfires were spotted from space by NOAA’s GOES-18 satellite. The loop above shows where a special sensor onboard the satellite was able to detect heat from the fires, including in Lahaina on Maui’s western side. "This satellite sensor is very useful since it can give information about a fire’s location, size and intensity, even at night," weather.com senior meteorologist Chris Dolce said. "Sometimes the sensor can even detect wildfires that break out before they are spotted on the ground."

(​12:01 p.m. ET) Maui Schools Closed
From a tweet by the Hawaii Department of Education: "With the exception of Hana High & Elementary in East Maui, all other HIDOE public schools on Maui will be closed to students and staff today due to the ongoing wildfires and evacuations on the island."

(​11:50 a.m. ET) Sunrise Will Give Better Look At Damage
I​t's currently 5:50 a.m. in Lahaina. Sunrise is at about 6:05 a.m. “Right now it is all-hands-on-deck and we are anxious for daybreak,” County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin told The Associated Press earlier this morning.

(11:43 a.m. ET) All Roads Closed In Lahaina
Maui Officials issued an update stating that all roads in the town of Lahaina are closed and will be open to emergency personnel only. This includes “roads between Wahikuli wayside park on the north, to Kai Hele Ku Street to the south.” Evacuations continue to be underway across Maui.

Article imageA wildfire burns on the Hawaii island of Maui on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023.
(​11:39 a.m. ET) How Hurricane Dora Is Playing A Role
"Even though Hawaii is not getting directly hit by Hurricane Dora, it's definitely been enough to really fan those flames and make the fires pretty hard to get under control," weather.com meteorologist Ari Sarsalari said. You can watch his full explanation here.

(11:27 a.m. ET) Hawaii's Leeward Side Is Most Prone To Fires
The "leeward" slopes of Hawaii's mountains are much drier than the "windward" slopes. These areas located on the west side of Hawaii's islands usually receive significantly less rainfall each year and are more susceptible to fires.

"That's because typical trade winds from the northeast or east blow up the slopes of the island's mountains, occasionally deposit so-called "mauka" or mountain showers, then descend down the western slopes and dry out," said weather.com senior meteorologist Jonathan Erdman.

Lahaina has seen the brunt of the island's recent wildfires. The area sees only about 0.23 inches of rain in August, its driest month on average.

(​11:13 a.m. ET) Lahaina Was Once Capital Of Hawaiian Kingdom
Article image
Lahaina is a popular tourist destination on the island of Maui's northwestern tip. It was the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii from 1820 to 1845. The Lahaina Historic District is a National Historic Landmark, designated as such by the National Park Service in 1962. About 12,500 people live in Lahaina, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The total population of Maui is about 164,000. Nearly 3 million people visited the island last year, according to data from Hawaii's state tourism department.

(​10:59 a.m. ET) 'I Saw Lahaina Burning As We Escaped'
Charter boat captain Heather Coyne posted this on Facebook early this morning: "I’m at a total loss. We are ok and safe. I can’t believe the fire in Lahaina is real. I am so unbelievably sorry for the families that are losing homes, folks losing businesses, families losing loved ones, boats that are burning and are lost. People jumping in the water. . . To escape the flames. I saw Lahaina burning as we escaped … I pray that it’s not as bad as it looks."

(​10:54 a.m. ET) Gusty Winds Continue On Maui
Winds are still gusting about 15 to 20 mph, but relief is coming.

“As Dora moves away the winds will slowly die down later today into tonight,” weather.com senior meteorologist Jonathan Erdman said.

(​10:43 a.m. ET) Winds Hamper Firefighting Efforts
Winds are keeping helicopters from fighting the fires from the sky. Firefighters are also faced with roads blocked by downed trees and power lines, The Associated Press reported.

(​10:34 a.m. ET) At Least One Home Damaged On Hawaii's Big Island.
I​t's not just Maui where fire's are burning. “We're trying to protect homes in the community,” Big Island Mayor Mitch Roth told The Associated Press. About 400 homes in four communities in the northern part of the island have been evacuated. The roof of at least one home caught on fire, Roth said.

(​10:23 a.m. ET) Widespread Power Outages
M​ore than 14,000 homes and businesses on Maui are without power, according to PowerOutage.us. That's about one in five customers on the island.

(9​:45 a.m. ET) Residents Lose Everything
"​Our house was gone. Everything that we’d ever known was gone," Lahaina resident Dustin Kaleiopu told Hawaii News Now. "Our church, our schools, every single memory we had on this household ... everything was gone in the blink of an eye."

M​ultiple evacuation orders are in effect for the island, according to a press release from Maui County. All of the fires remain uncontained, Maui County Chief of Communications and Public Affairs Mahina Martin told The Weather Channel in an interview just prior to 9 a.m. EDT.

(6:30 a.m. ET) Maui Hospital Gets Burn Patients
"911 is down. Cell service is down. Phone service is down," Hawaii Lt. Gov. Sylvia Luke told CNN. "Our hospital system on Maui, they are overburdened with burn patients, people suffering from inhalation."

T​he fires have been fanned by wind gusts of 40 to 60 mph.

Hurricane Dora helped induce the strong winds over the Hawaiian Islands by enhancing a pressure gradient. That means it helped kick up the strong winds in tandem with high pressure to the north.

Article image
M​aking matters worse, parts of Maui are in moderate to severe drought as of the latest U.S. Drought Monitor update.

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard, the Associated Press reported.

(​Chris Dolce and Sean Breslin contributed to this article)

The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.

The Weather Company’s primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.



Skip to content
NOWCASTNoon NewsWatch on Demand

MENU
 
KCRA 3 News and Weather
93°
WEATHER
BREAKING NEWS: KCRA 3 Fire Threat Index: Track fire conditions across Northern California regions
BREAKING NEWS: 2023 California Wildfire Preparedness Guide: What to know and how to stay safe
BREAKING NEWS: Northern California wildfire resources: Where to find county evacuation info, maps, alerts and more
SEVERE WEATHER There is currently 1 active weather alert
Sacramento, CA95814 93°  Sunny Chance of precipitation 0%  
1 / 5
Advertisement
Wildfire in Maui kills at least 6, damages over 270 structures as it sweeps through historic town
Share
  AP logoUpdated: 11:16 PM PDT Aug 9, 2023
Infinite Scroll Enabled

By Jennifer Sinco Kelleher and Audrey McAvoy
Play Video
 SHOW TRANSCRIPT

GET LOCAL BREAKING NEWS ALERTS
The latest breaking updates, delivered straight to your email inbox.

Your Email Address
SUBMIT
Privacy Notice
KAHULUI, Hawaii —
A wildfire tore through the heart of the Hawaiian island of Maui in darkness Wednesday, reducing much of a historic town to ash and forcing people to jump into the ocean to flee the flames. At least six people died, dozens were wounded and 271 structures were damaged or destroyed.

The fires continued to burn Wednesday afternoon, fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as it passed well south of the Hawaiian islands. Officials feared the death toll could rise.

Advertisement
“This is a deeply somber day,” Maui Mayor Richard Bissen said. “The gravity of losing any life is tragic. As we grieve with their families, we offer prayers for comfort in this inconsolable time.”

As winds diminished somewhat, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of the coastal town of Lahaina by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County.

Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses in Lahaina flattened, including on Front Street, a favorite spot for tourists to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees.

“It’s horrifying. I’ve flown here 52 years and I’ve never seen anything come close to that," said Richard Olsten, a helicopter pilot for a tour company. “We had tears in our eyes, the other pilots on board and the mechanics, and me.”

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said the flames “wiped out communities," and urged travelers to stay away.

Recommended
Motorcyclist dies in crash on Highway 65, CHP says
“This is not a safe place to be,” she said.

Maui officials urged visitors to leave Lahaina, and the island was organizing a “mass bus evacuation” Wednesday afternoon to take people directly to the airport, according to an update from the county.

West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, the county said.

The exact cause of the blaze couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors, including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation, likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for Hawaii State Department of Defense. Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather.

“Climate change in many parts of the world is increasing vegetation dryness, in large part because temperatures are hotter,” said Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University. “Even if you have the same amount of precipitation, if you have higher temperatures, things dry out faster.”

The wind-driven conflagration swept into the area with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in the Lahaina town center, which dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places.

| UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE | Maui native and KCRA 3 anchor Mike Cherry speaks on Hawaii wildfire

Play Video

“It was apocalyptic from what they explained,” Tiare Lawrence said of 14 cousins and uncles who fled the town and took refuge at her home in Pukalani, east of Lahaina.

Lahaina resident Keʻeaumoku Kapu was tying down loose objects in the wind at the cultural center he runs in Lahaina when his wife showed up Tuesday afternoon and told him they needed to evacuate. “Right at that time, things got crazy, the wind started picking up,” said Kapu, who added that they got out “in the nick of time.”

| VIDEO BELOW | Reporter Chelsea Davis describes Maui wildfire impacts

Play Video
Two blocks away they saw fire and billowing smoke. Kapu, his wife and a friend jumped into his pickup truck. “By the time we turned around, our building was on fire," he said. "It was that quick.”

Crews on Maui were battling multiple blazes concentrated in two areas: the tourist destination on the western coast and an inland, mountainous region. In West Maui, 911 service was out and residents were directed to call the police department directly.

In the Upcountry community of Kula, at least two homes were destroyed Tuesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles (4.5 square kilometers), County of Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said.

There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii’s Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday. Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires.

| VIDEO BELOW | Meteorologist explains what is driving the Hawaii wildfires

Play Video
The Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had fled into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions, the county said in a statement.

Fires killed six people on Maui, but search and rescue operations continued and the number could rise, Bissen said.

| VIDEO BELOW | Aerial video over western Maui shows fire damage to Lahaina area

Play Video
Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, he said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, he said.

Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke.

Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist.

“Certain parts of Maui, we have shelters that are overrun," Luke said. "We have resources that are being taxed.”

President Joe Biden said in a statement Wednesday evening that he has ordered “all available Federal assets” to help Hawaii. The president said the Coast Guard and Navy are supporting response and rescue efforts, while the Marines are providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the fires.

There’s no count available for the number of structures that have burned or the number of people who have evacuated, but officials said there were four shelters open housing 2,100 people.

Kahului Airport, the main airport in Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on the island, the county said. Officials were preparing the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in up to 4,000 displaced tourists and locals.

“Local people have lost everything,” said James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. “They’ve lost their house, they’ve lost their animals.”

Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it’s tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many.

“Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” he said.

Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina, said he and his wife didn't have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “We had years and years of research material, artifacts,” he said.

Alan Dickar said he's not sure what remains of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists.

“Every significant thing I owned burned down today,” he said.

Lahaina is often thought of as just a Maui tourist town, Lawrence said, but “we have a very strong Hawaiian community.”

“I’m just heartbroken. Everywhere, our memories,” she said. “Everyone’s homes. Everyone’s lives have tragically changed in the last 12 hours.”

Shortly before 7 p.m., a Hawaiian Airlines flight that left from Maui landed at the Sacramento International Airport. Watch Below.



Skip to content
91°
Charleston, SC
Live
News
Back to School
BREAKING: Father, son arrested in weekend Bluffton shooting that hurt child
4 Weather Alerts In Effect
At least six killed as raging wildfire destroys much of Hawaii community, officials say

Six people have been confirmed killed in the raging wildfires that have decimated entire Maui communities and all but leveled historic Lahaina town.
By HNN Staff and Amanda Alvarado
Published: Aug. 9, 2023 at 12:04 PM GMT+1|Updated: Aug. 10, 2023 at 3:56 AM GMT+1
LAHAINA, Hawaii (KHNL/KGMB/Gray News) - At least six people have been killed in a massive brush fire that has destroyed many communities in Maui, and authorities fear that number could rise as emergency responders slowly move into fire-ravaged areas.

KHNL reports at least three large fires are still active with more than 100 firefighters trying to battle the flames.

In addition to the six people killed, authorities confirmed at least 20 people suffered serious burns in the wildfires and several were airlifted to Oahu. Three are in critical condition at the Straub Medical Center’s burn unit.

Honolulu Emergency Services Department spokesperson Shayne Enright confirmed a woman in her 60s was transported to a Honolulu hospital burn center in critical condition. A firefighter in Maui was also hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke.

Meanwhile, authorities say Civil Air Patrol and Maui Fire Department flyovers conducted Wednesday show at least 271 structures were damaged or destroyed by the flames.

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling and activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist. Luke said it could take months to assess the full scope of the damage from the fires — and that recovery will take years.

“This is the entire state coming together to assist our family on Maui,” she said, at a news conference Wednesday. “We never anticipated a hurricane that did not make impact would cause this type of wildfires. Wildfires that wiped out communities. Wildfires that wiped out businesses.”


Video shows fires in Maui on Wednesday, driven by winds from Hurricane Dora. (Source: Clint Hansen of Maui Real Estate Radio/CNN)
More than 2,100 people were housed overnight at the county’s four emergency shelters and the American Red Cross of Hawaii is putting out an urgent call for volunteers to staff more evacuation centers.

Residents said an overwhelmed fire force could do little as flames ripped through historic Lahaina town, destroying dozens of homes and businesses in what onlookers believe is the worst natural disaster in Hawaii’s history since Hurricane Iniki in 1992.

On Wednesday afternoon, President Biden offered his condolences to the families of those who lost loved ones and offered federal support.

“We are grateful to the brave firefighters and first responders who continue to run toward danger, putting themselves in harm’s way to save lives,” he said, in a statement from the White House. “I have ordered all available Federal assets on the Islands to help with response. The Hawaiian National Guard has mobilized Chinook Helicopters to help with fire suppression and search and rescue on the Island of Maui. The U.S. Coast Guard and Navy Third Fleets are supporting response and rescue efforts. The U.S. Marines are providing Black Hawk Helicopters to fight the fires on the Big Island. The Department of Transportation is working with commercial airlines to evacuate tourists from Maui, and the Department of the Interior and the United States Department of Agriculture stand ready to support post fire recovery efforts.”

The full scope of the devastation in Lahaina isn’t known, but videos on social media show a wall of flames descending on Front Street in Lahaina and destroying everything in its path. One terrifying video posted by fleeing residents shows uncontrolled flames on both sides of their vehicle. The video also shows burned out cars.

Officials say that the Coast Guard deployed a helicopter and boat to Front Street Beach and the Lahaina Small Boat Harbor to rescue a number of people from the water.

At about 10:50 p.m. local time on Tuesday, the Coast Guard said it had rescued at least 14 people from waters off Lahaina.

Maui’s Pulehu Road fire is shown. 
Maui’s Pulehu Road fire is shown. (Susan Shinozuka)
Lahaina resident Tiare Lawrence compared the scene to something out of the apocalypse, with people running for their lives.

“It’s just so hard. I’m currently Upcountry and just knowing I can’t get a hold of any of my family members. I still don’t know where my little brother is. I don’t know where my stepdad is,” she said.

Front Street business owner Alan Dickar says he watched business after business in the historic district going up in flames.

“Buildings on both sides were engulfed. There were no fire trucks at that point. I think the fire department was overwhelmed,” Dickar said. “That is the most important business street on Maui.”

A Maui County spokesperson confirmed there were “multiple” structure fires in addition to “extensive evacuations” in the Lahaina area.

“The Coast Guard has been responding to impacted areas where residents are entering the ocean due to smoke and fire conditions,” the county said, in a news release Tuesday night.

The brush fire in Lahaina is one of at least seven sizable wildfires that firefighters are battling statewide amid treacherous conditions — powerful winds, low humidity and dry brush.


Hurricane Dora is boosting wildfires in parts of Hawaii, forcing evacuations. (Credit: Sam Posthuma via CNN Newsource)
The winds, fueled by Hurricane Dora as it passes south of the state, have topped 55 mph in many spots, with gusts to 70 to 80 mph. In addition to wildfires, first responders are grappling with downed trees and damaged structures.

Also in Maui, crews are fighting a fire in Kula that’s destroyed at least two structures and displaced hundreds. Fire crews are also fighting large wildfires on Hawaii Island, where evacuations continue.

A growing brush fire was also reported in Kihei.

Tens of thousands of people across Maui are without power after high winds downed more than 30 poles and flames destroyed even more infrastructure. Cell service is also nonexistent in some places except for those with satellite phones, KHNL reported.

The state plans to fly 4,000 tourists out of Maui on Wednesday to Oahu, multiple sources confirmed to KHNL. They will be put up at the Hawaii Convention Center. Authorities said at least 2,000 people were waiting at Kahului’s airport.


Enable accessibility
Menu
AP Logo
Show Search

Maui fires latest
Top 25 College Football Poll
Montana climate case decision
James Harden comments
Russia-Ukraine war
CLIMATE
Wildfire on Maui kills at least 6, damages over 270 structures as it sweeps through historic town
Wildfires in Hawaii burn multiple structures in areas including historic Lahaina town, forcing evacuations and closing schools (Aug. 9)

Videos
4
Images
16
BY JENNIFER SINCO KELLEHER, AUDREY MCAVOY AND CHRISTOPHER WEBER
Updated 5:08 AM GMT+1, August 10, 2023
Share
KAHULUI, Hawaii (AP) — A wildfire tore through the heart of the Hawaiian island of Maui in darkness Wednesday, reducing much of a historic town to ash and forcing people to jump into the ocean to flee the flames. At least six people died, dozens were wounded and 271 structures were damaged or destroyed.

The fires continued to burn Wednesday afternoon, fueled by strong winds from Hurricane Dora as it passed well south of the Hawaiian islands. Officials feared the death toll could rise.

“This is a deeply somber day,” Maui Mayor Richard Bissen said. “The gravity of losing any life is tragic. As we grieve with their families, we offer prayers for comfort in this inconsolable time.”

As winds diminished somewhat, some aircraft resumed flights, enabling pilots to view the full scope of the devastation. Flyovers of the coastal town of Lahaina by U.S. Civil Air Patrol and the Maui Fire Department showed the extent of the loss, said Mahina Martin, a spokesperson for Maui County.


Aerial video showed dozens of homes and businesses in Lahaina flattened, including on Front Street, a favorite spot for tourists to shop and dine. Smoking heaps of rubble lay piled high next to the waterfront, boats in the harbor were scorched, and gray smoke hovered over the leafless skeletons of charred trees.

RELATED COVERAGE
In this photo provided by Tiffany Kidder Winn, burned-out cars sit after a wildfire raged through Lahaina, Hawaii, on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023. The scene at one of Maui's tourist hubs on Thursday looked like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes as firefighters as firefighters battled the deadliest blaze in the U.S. in recent years. (Tiffany Kidder Winn via AP)
53 people have died from the Maui wildfires, governor says, and historic Lahaina has burned down
In this photo provided by Tiffany Kidder Winn, a man walks past wildfire wreckage on Wednesday, Aug. 9, 2023, in Lahaina, Hawaii. The scene at one of Maui's tourist hubs on Thursday looked like a wasteland, with homes and entire blocks reduced to ashes as firefighters as firefighters battled the deadliest blaze in the U.S. in recent years. (Tiffany Kidder Winn via AP)
Maui’s fire became deadly fast. Climate change, flash drought, invasive grass and more fueled it
Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui, Hawaii, as a fire burns in Maui's upcountry region on Tuesday, Aug. 8. 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)
Hawaii wildfires burn homes and force evacuations, while strong winds complicate the fight
“It’s horrifying. I’ve flown here 52 years and I’ve never seen anything come close to that,” said Richard Olsten, a helicopter pilot for a tour company. “We had tears in our eyes, the other pilots on board and the mechanics, and me.”

Acting Gov. Sylvia Luke said the flames “wiped out communities,” and urged travelers to stay away.

“This is not a safe place to be,” she said.

People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui.
People watch as smoke and flames fill the air from raging wildfires on Front Street in downtown Lahaina, Maui on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Maui officials say wildfire in the historic town has burned parts of one of the most popular tourist areas in Hawaii. County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said in a phone interview early Wednesday fire was widespread in Lahaina, including Front Street, an area of the town popular with tourists. (Alan Dickar via AP)

Maui officials urged visitors to leave Lahaina, and the island was organizing a “mass bus evacuation” Wednesday afternoon to take people directly to the airport, according to an update from the county.

West Maui remained without cell or landline phone service or electricity, the county said.

The exact cause of the blaze couldn’t be determined, but a number of factors, including high winds, low humidity and dry vegetation, likely contributed, said Maj. Gen. Kenneth Hara, adjutant general for Hawaii State Department of Defense. Experts also said climate change is increasing the likelihood of more extreme weather.

“Climate change in many parts of the world is increasing vegetation dryness, in large part because temperatures are hotter,” said Erica Fleishman, director of the Oregon Climate Change Research Institute at Oregon State University. “Even if you have the same amount of precipitation, if you have higher temperatures, things dry out faster.”

This photo provided by County of Maui shows fire and smoke filling the sky from wildfires on the intersection at Hokiokio Place and Lahaina Bypass in Maui, Hawaii on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. 
This photo provided by County of Maui shows fire and smoke filling the sky from wildfires on the intersection at Hokiokio Place and Lahaina Bypass in Maui, Hawaii on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Wildfires in Hawaii fanned by strong winds burned multiple structures in areas including historic Lahaina town, forcing evacuations and closing schools in several communities Wednesday, and rescuers pulled a dozen people escaping smoke and flames from the ocean. (Zeke Kalua/County of Maui via AP)

The wind-driven conflagration swept into the area with alarming speed and ferocity, blazing through intersections and leaping across wooden buildings in the Lahaina town center, which dates to the 1700s and is on the National Register of Historic Places.

“It was apocalyptic from what they explained,” Tiare Lawrence said of 14 cousins and uncles who fled the town and took refuge at her home in Pukalani, east of Lahaina.

Lahaina resident Keʻeaumoku Kapu was tying down loose objects in the wind at the cultural center he runs in Lahaina when his wife showed up Tuesday afternoon and told him they needed to evacuate. “Right at that time, things got crazy, the wind started picking up,” said Kapu, who added that they got out “in the nick of time.”

Two blocks away they saw fire and billowing smoke. Kapu, his wife and a friend jumped into his pickup truck. “By the time we turned around, our building was on fire,” he said. “It was that quick.”

Crews were battling three fires in Maui: in Lahaina, south Maui’s Kihei area and the mountainous, inland communities known as Upcountry, said Mahina Martin, spokesperson for Maui County.

In the Upcountry community of Kula, at least two homes were destroyed Tuesday in a fire that engulfed about 1.7 square miles (4.5 square kilometers), County of Maui Mayor Richard Bissen Jr. said.

In this photo provided by Brantin Stevens smoke fill the air from wild fires at Lahaina harbor on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023 in Hawaii. Fire was widespread in Lahaina Town, including on Front Street, a popular shopping and dining area, County of Maui spokesperson Mahina Martin said by phone early Wednesday. Traffic has been very heavy as people try to evacuate the area, and officials asked people who weren’t in an evacuation area to shelter in place to avoid adding to the traffic, she said. (Brantin Stevens via AP)
Members of a Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources wildland firefighting crew on Maui battle a fire in Kula, Hawaii, on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)

There have been no reports of injuries or homes lost to three wildfires burning on Hawaii’s Big Island, Mayor Mitch Roth said Wednesday. Firefighters did extinguish a few roof fires.

The National Weather Service said Hurricane Dora, which was passing to the south of the island chain at a safe distance of 500 miles (805 kilometers), was partly to blame for gusts above 60 mph (97 kph) that knocked out power, rattled homes and grounded firefighting helicopters on Maui.

The Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 14 people, including two children, who had fled into the ocean to escape the fire and smoky conditions, the county said in a statement.

Fires killed six people on Maui, but search and rescue operations continued and the number could rise, Bissen said.

Six patients were flown from Maui to the island of Oahu on Tuesday night, said Speedy Bailey, regional director for Hawaii Life Flight, an air-ambulance company. Three of them had critical burns and were taken to Straub Medical Center’s burn unit, he said. The others were taken to other Honolulu hospitals. At least 20 patients were taken to Maui Memorial Medical Center, he said.

Authorities said earlier Wednesday that a firefighter in Maui was hospitalized in stable condition after inhaling smoke.

Luke issued an emergency proclamation on behalf of Gov. Josh Green, who is traveling, and activated the Hawaii National Guard to assist.

“Certain parts of Maui, we have shelters that are overrun,” Luke said. “We have resources that are being taxed.”

Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui, Hawaii, as a fire burns in Maui's upcountry region on Tuesday, Aug. 8. 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)
Smoke blows across the slope of Haleakala volcano on Maui, Hawaii, as a fire burns in Maui's upcountry region on Tuesday, Aug. 8. 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)
Members of a Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources wildland firefighting crew on Maui battle a fire in Kula, Hawaii, on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)
Members of a Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources wildland firefighting crew on Maui battle a fire in Kula, Hawaii, on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. Several Hawaii communities were forced to evacuate from wildfires that destroyed at least two homes as of Tuesday as a dry season mixed with strong wind gusts made for dangerous fire conditions. (Matthew Thayer/The Maui News via AP)
President Joe Biden said in a statement Wednesday evening that he has ordered “all available Federal assets” to help Hawaii. The president said the Coast Guard and Navy are supporting response and rescue efforts, while the Marines are providing Black Hawk helicopters to fight the fires.

There was no count available for the number of people who have evacuated, but officials said there were four shelters open housing 2,100 people.

Kahului Airport, the main airport in Maui, was sheltering 2,000 travelers whose flights were canceled or who recently arrived on the island, the county said. Officials were preparing the Hawaii Convention Center in Honolulu to take in up to 4,000 displaced tourists and locals.

“Local people have lost everything,” said James Tokioka, director of the Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism. “They’ve lost their house, they’ve lost their animals.”

Former President Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, said on social media Wednesday evening that it’s tough to see some of the images coming out of a place that is so special to many.

“Michelle and I are thinking of everyone who has lost a loved one, or whose life has been turned upside down,” he said.

Kapu, the owner of the Na Aikane o Maui cultural center in Lahaina, said he and his wife didn’t have time to pack up anything before being forced to flee. “We had years and years of research material, artifacts,” he said.

Alan Dickar said he’s not sure what remains of his Vintage European Posters gallery, which was a fixture on Front Street in Lahaina for 23 years. Before evacuating with three friends and two cats, Dickar recorded video of flames engulfing the main strip of shops and restaurants frequented by tourists.

“Every significant thing I owned burned down today,” he said.

Lahaina is often thought of as just a Maui tourist town, Lawrence said, but “we have a very strong Hawaiian community.”

“I’m just heartbroken. Everywhere, our memories,” she said. “Everyone’s homes. Everyone’s lives have tragically changed in the last 12 hours.”

___
This story was edited to correct that Bissen is the mayor of the County of Maui, not Lahaina.

___
Sinco Kelleher reported from Honolulu and Weber from Los Angeles. Associated Press writer Beatrice Dupuy in New York contributed to this report.




Skip to main content
Newsletters
TRAVEL
|
HAWAII
NASA maps show where wildfires are burning on Maui
By Katie Dowd
Updated Aug 9, 2023 3:36 p.m.
A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.
A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.

NASA via screenshot
A series of maps from NASA's Fire Information for Resource Management System shows where a number of wildfires are burning on the island of Maui on Wednesday. 

exp-player-logo
The origins of sourdough bread in San Francisco
The most destructive wildfire sparked on Tuesday amid tropical storm winds near the historic town of Lahaina. Front Street, a spot popular with tourists to the island, is believed to be heavily damaged. Flames moved so quickly on Tuesday that at least a dozen people were forced to jump into the ocean to shelter from the blaze.

A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.
A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.

NASA via screenshot
ADVERTISEMENT

Article continues below this ad

Fire crews on Maui were battling multiple blazes concentrated in two areas: the popular tourist destination of West Maui and an inland, mountainous region. In the Kula area of Maui, at least two homes were destroyed in a fire that engulfed about 1,100 acres (1.7 square miles), Maui Mayor Richard Bissen said. About 80 people were evacuated from 40 homes, he said.

“We have suffered a terrible disaster in the form of a wildfire that has spread widely as a result of hurricane-force winds in the region and underlying drought conditions,” Gov. Josh Green said in a statement issued Wednesday morning. “Maui and the Big Island both experienced significant fires. Much of Lahaina on Maui has been destroyed and hundreds of local families have been displaced."

A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.
A map from NASA shows the locations of the Maui wildfires on Aug. 9, 2023.

NASA via screenshot
As of Wednesday afternoon, at least six people have died as a result of the Maui fires. The County of Maui says there is no change in the fires' containment, but milder wind conditions have helped helicopters fight the fire.



For the latest on evacuation orders, which have been changing rapidly, check the County of Maui's Facebook page. 

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

More Maui Fire Coverage
— What caused the Maui fires?
— Harrowing tales emerge from Maui as fire hit with no warning
— Traffic nightmare as residents, tourists try to get into West Maui
— Before-and-after photos show Lahaina demolished by fire
— The birthplace of Hula Pie lost in Maui fire

Aug 9, 2023|Updated Aug 9, 2023 3:36 p.m.
Photo of Katie Dowd
By Katie Dowd
Katie Dowd is the SFGATE managing editor.






